From: Eric Johnson [ejohnson@duuk.com]
Sent: Monday, April 02, 2007 9:54 PM
To: 'cstar@ncmstl.com'
Subject: Eric Johnson

Eric Johnson

13301 Superior

Southgate MI 48195

RE: University of Michigan/Dearborn

 

Ms Star,

 

I registered for classes in the summer of 2000 with the intention of attending.  I did not attend.  I withdrew from classes, but this was not processed.  During the summer of 2001 I first received notice that this “bill” was due and promptly called the University.  I was advised that the billing error would be fixed and heard nothing further about this bill until approximately 2003 when I was contacted by a collection agency.

 

At that time I again called the University and was this advised that there was no record that I had attended classes and that the billing was obviously in error.  I was advised at that time that perhaps I should post-term withdraw from the classes and get the professors of those classes to sign a note agreeing that I had never attended.  When I asked for contact information on those professors, I was advised that most of them had left their positions with the university and had left no contact information.  I was told that the registrar’s office would note the account with the fact that it was not possible to fix the error and the bill would be expunged.

 

In late 2006 I was contacted by your organization again stating that the account was in collections.  When I contacted the registrar’s office I was advised that my best course of action was to sue the University to correct their error.  While I appreciate the irony that my tax dollars are hard at work with people that agree that the error is on their end but cannot be removed without litigation, I would feel slightly absurd going to court to prove something which is not in dispute.

 

If however my only course of action is to file a suit against the University and any collections agencies involved, I will do so.  You understand of course that I do not hold the collection agency accountable for this error as the problem has repeatedly been on the part of the University.

 

Please advise me of your next steps, and if the account has been referred to any of the credit bureaus.





Very truly,

 

Eric S Johnson.



--
No virus found in this outgoing message.
Checked by AVG Free Edition.
Version: 7.5.446 / Virus Database: 268.18.25/743 - Release Date: 4/2/2007 4:24 PM

