Good Morning,

Thank you for the warm welcome back and keeping me on the team.

I wanted to send this mail to overlay my goals here and kinda bring 
you up to speed on how I'm doing...a lot has happened.

Haven Goals:

Its been, uh a long time. I didnt really forget any of this stuff 
but its going to be a moment before I break the shoes in again.

I have an entire area sitting in my workdir, I had someone look at it 
ages ago and its totally ready to roll, but it has this bug where the 
room eats the items in the armoury. I am not asking for help but I want 
to see if i can squash this bug first and foremost before I start 
building again. I will resubmit once I feel I am satisfied, its 
already qc'd so i dont believe it will be a time waster considering 
the upper staffs current workload. This is my primary focus at the 
moment and this would be a quick review. To my knowledge the-bug
is the only thing holding this area from release.

I started making a library of just random travellers on the road
that clutter the roads, offer different weapons/armor sell random 
wares, to add more life to the world. I still intend to finish 
this. It would be a great Second Project to finish after the 
ruins bugfix. If i remember correctly I got tied up with quest 
controllers but i dont think it would be much of an issue if 
I got back into it.

I was tasked with Kresh revival before my departure. There is a lot 
of oldcode and references to things that dont even exist anymore. 
Valkyr i believe was a class or something but it is referenced in 
a guildhall, anywho its too big for me atm. If i am to keep this 
project I would have to estimate I cant touch this until JAN2024.
Quick notes jotted down 10 years ago in :
/realms/urien/kresh/list.txt

Current plan:
Eclat RUINS -> world/roadside npcs -> Kresh (or other assignment)


On Torak:

Torak be toraking. He sent a mudmail which was 'very nice' 
and i got triggered, hung my hat and left. I dedicated 
a good amount of time here albeit not focused only to be 
judged, demoted and lectured about changing worldcode without 
permission. There was a trapped player in haventown. For some 
reason the room wasnt loading for a player. I tried updating the 
room, ended up making the " "'s a little more clean in the 
old code SetLong, tested it, it worked, player saved, and then 
nuked for malicious tampering days later. I have no intention of 
nuking the MUD or personal gain or changing anything without 
permission. I didnt hide it, deny it or lie. Felt a little jaded 
since i never really got my side of the story out there. Im not 
one to question judgement, but i believe i never spoke personally 
to you about the incident. It was updated and it worked. The 
player walked through it and it loaded fine. Broke when I 
logged off/went to irl work.

My finest coded thing was the invasion room for immortals to 
siege or expand on the invasion mechanic. I am still seriously 
proud of it. Nothing was good enough. Torak explained about 
'missing the point'. Working here just didnt have value and 
90% of interaction was with him and stayed along this pace.

Water under the bridge. 

-Its 10+ year old bag of drama. I have no hard feelings about 
 Torak anymore. Just clueless on his motives in particular against 
 me and still wonder why I was/felt like i was targeted. It could 
 be argued that it was a motivation tactic or such to convince me
 into a more teamwork mindset, but the actions/conversations in 
 said company had the exact opposite effect. Either way,
 my life was a disaster and i needed to fix that instead 
 of taking Haven politics(?) personal.
 
-If i saw him I would treat him as a friend not a rival.



Personal crap:

Wasnt a Dwarf guy, played Dwarf Fortress for about 8 years now 
and am pro-dwarf. 

Lost my house, ended up caretaker for my elderly family members and 
landed a job in optics manufacturing in the city. Its decent money 
and I'm not the brokie i was when i was on here last, literally 
starving and working for change. Thank you again for the 
reference into insurance but the VA helped land me a shit kitchen 
job and then into my current manufacturing job in optics. We 
got lenses on mars and iss. Its quite a thing.

Got my Degree in Fine Art and Design. It didnt teach me how to 
be an animator but i have kept up with my artwork.

My sister died from Fentanyl/drug abuse its been 12 ish years now 
and her son is now in my care. He's 18 now...

I'm surrounded by liberals. A red dot in a blue state and in an 
even bluer county. 

Im about 30% done with a RPG in RPGmaker, this was a personal project 
I am trying to finish before the end of this year (being realistic 
might be end of next year as it is quite an ambitious project.) This 
started in NOV2022 and with any luck I could possibly put it on a 
NES cartridge.

Digital Art skills have been much more enhanced. Bigass wiki pics 
I can rescale with class.

My Haven tattoo still looks fresh.

I tried popping in in between holidays but i figured it was 
due to me being a MUD noob and getting the address wrong. Glad 
the MUD is back up and thanks for welcoming me back.

//Urien
//David Brackett
//585-415-7558 Rochester NY
//I work 3-11pm shift now, it rotates. So i'm on HAVEN 12am - 5ish daily.
//I always have weekend and holidays off now.
