
ToDo:

islands:
  Cyclops Island: (75 to 150)
      Neutral Cyclops worshipping Damhair
      Small island, cyclops farming and herding goat. They live in cave
      Special/Unique item (Water Armour, protects against Water/Ice  or 
        Hammer of Damhair, does additional water damage ) guarded by 
        cyclops elder
      Maybe quest to get armour or skin goats
      
   Drake Isle: (100 to 200)
      mountainous island with fire drakes
      quest: skin 5 drakes
      
   Artic Isle/Ice Island: (85 to 150)
      near top of the ocean; ice drakes and ice giants, maybe an ice dragon (400)
      small port where the giants trade

Spells Ideas:
		1. tongues - able to speak known languages fluently (100%) temporarily
    2. foreign ear - able to comprend any language temporarily
  			both should be High Mortal level
    3. wizard speech - able to speak and comphrend ANY language fluently (100%) 
    			temporary status. this is high legend/low avatar spell
	  4. knock - magically open doors and chests
	  5. magic lock - reinforces lock on doors and chests
	  6. resizing armour - enlarge or reduce armour    
	  
Farming:
  Arid:
     beans
     maize
     squash  
      
disintegrate spell needs help file
        
        
Add SetMiningBonus() to mines 
Add SetFarmingBonus() to farms

Merchant Class player ideas
  1. mining metals like ore, iron, mithril etc (skill mining) 
  2. melt <metal> (skill metal working): melts the mined metals to bars which 
     may be later used to produce armours. It would also be possible to melt 
     old armour into bars - but bars created from mined metals would be of 
     better quality. 
  3. forge <metal> to <armour/weapon piece> of <size> (skill armour smithing) - 
     (requires metal bars of different types): this would allow the user to 
     create armours/weapons. This way we could create chain armour, plate armour 
     and high skilled people even heavy plate armour. 
  4. alloy <metal> (skill metal working): combines different metals to create 
     new alloys which may used to create armours/weapons. The different alloys 
     show different properties (protect good better/less than normal metals). 
  5. tailor <skins> to <armour> of <size> (skill cloth working, textile working,  
     leather working etc): would be used to create cloth, leather, reinforce armour. 

  melt, forge and alloy should only be possible in smithies (and cost shitload of sps). 


Gwonish Swamp Bank

Tairi
		4. Invasions
		    A. goden vikings/raiders
		2. Smithy & Armourer Vendor
				A. shoes
		3. Smithy trainer
		    A. bargaining teacher also?
		    B. cooking teacher
		1. Fix Tairi area
				B. Sign cannot be read
						i. /domains/tairi/areas/shrine/room/room4
				C. Add pickable locks
		5. Oriental Lower Planes
		6. Muezzin Village

Great Circle spell & obj
		
Help Files:
		Languages. how to learn them?
		Magic and Metal wearing

		
Shout, yell, whisper - set language not default language

Lizardman:
	Eat corpses

		
	
		
Things to Consider:
    A. quest givers only speak native tongue.. if player does not speak they cannot do quest
    B. can only learn language from sage if the player knows any of the sage's languages
    		
		1. when it rains, it'd be cool to see rain coming down when you look at the sky!
		2. different spell message when targeting dead objs
		3. using 'skills' to find out how much xp needed to advance to next level
		4. searchable Halo in heaven
		5. wimpy turned on for when limb(s) are severed
		6. Healing Boost skill
		7. Modify "consider" - take in players skills and targets equipment
		8. sheaths for weapons
		9. 'idle all' command listing everyone's idle time
		10. show' command similar to the vendor option that allows one to show an item 
				they have to another player without giving it or dropping it
		11. Estates stuff
				a. tougher locks
				b. furniture vendor
				c. guards
		12. stealing from sleeping person has a chance to wake them
		13. make healers able to cure poison
		14. command to allow you to set fire to a ship in port
		15. cargo holds for ships
		16. It would be useful to have a way to tell how many (or which) mobs in a room 
				are in combat with me.  For example, in a room of 3 lizardman, I can't tell 
				if I'm fighting one or two or three.  One idea (saw this on another mud) was 
				in the description of the mob you see when using 'look', it would say 
				something like "one lizardman; one lizardman fighting you!; one lizardman" 
				if there were three lizardmen in the room and only one was in combat with you.
	  17. Banks should have a poster in them that the players can read to 
        check out the currency exchange rates. Something like "a large 
        wallboard is here" that you read and it shows "Currency of <town> 
        is: <currency>." It could then list other currencies relative to 
        that town's currency so in Haven it's the exchange rates relative 
        to imperials, in Jidoor it's rupies, and so forth. 
    18. Custom Armour for one player.