Name five valid classes.
fighter cleric barbarian evoker rogue
Name seven valid player races.
frogs newts salamanders toads and frogs again
List the ranks of Immortality.
Duuk Admin Secure AsstArch Sage Spirit Imm angel
Name at least two places unicorns are located.
my workroom and my invasion room ( just cloned em there.)
Name two of the Adventurers listed on the sign outside of Stryke's lair.
Might have to cheat and edit this one, but I'll say "Gnath" and "Cyric"
Name the mountain ranges of Kailie.
Crystal Reaches is all that matters
Name the six religions.
I don't believe in god.
If one wanted to buy a 'rat-on-a-stick' where would they have to go?
To the Rat on a Stick Vendor of course.  I created the damn thing.
How many months are there on Kailie?
None of them are named after me.  I refuse to recognize time.  If I did, I would be forced to recognize the difference in my ange and the average age of the remainder of the mud here.
What is your favorite area of Kailie and why?
I'm a big fan of Duuk's workroom.  Things usually get interesting in there.
What domain would you like to work in and why?
Work?
What religion would you be intrested in helping with and why?
We've been over this.  I don't believe in god.
What is your least favorite area on Kailie and why?
I'm not a big fan of my own workroom, as it implies that I should be working.
Please explain your role-playing influence in regards to religion on Kailie.
(reference my earlier religion questions)
Please explain your role-playing influence in regards to your town on Kailie.
I've forsaken my towns and people.
Please explain your role-playing influence in regards to race on Kailie.
see above answer
How do you feel about large corporations and their policies?
Specifically which corporations are we talking about.  I can go off on a rampage about politics and stuff if you like, but I suspect you are looking for something else.
What made you stay on Haven in less than ten words?
The salary.  Cept Duuk's a few months behind on paying it.
Why do you want to be an immortal in less than thirty words?

