Name five valid classes.
accountant rockstar auditor surfer dimwitted-manager


Name seven valid player races.
MichiganChic MSUChic PalyTwirp AnnoyingNewbie VeteranAsswipe HornDog SweetGirl


List the ranks of Immortality.
micro asshole, tiny asshole, little asshole, asshole, big asshole, bigger asshole, huge asshole, biggest asshole of them all  *wink*


Name at least two places unicorns are located.
the bathroom and on my front lawn


Name two of the Adventurers listed on the sign outside of Stryke's lair.
Captain Kirk and Mr Spock


Name the mountain ranges of Kailie.
The HairyBalls Mountains (known for round hills with LOTS of trees) and the GetLaid Range (no virgin can hike through them and still be one coming out)


Name the six religions.
Six?  No, there is Maggotism and Muzak


If one wanted to buy a 'rat-on-a-stick' where would they have to go?
McDonald's


How many months are there on Kailie?
20937598347598342758976238765873246578^23948242342   (it's a long fucking year)


What is your favorite area of Kailie and why?
The area between any young girl's legs.  Why do you think?


What domain would you like to work in and why?
Frostmarches...so I can make Keryth and the Goden kick everyones' puny asses.


What religion would you be intrested in helping with and why?
Soirin, cause I wanna hang out with Portia the SeXXXy One


What is your least favorite area on Kailie and why?
The area between Astara Banewulf's legs.  Cause she's waaaay too old.


Please explain your role-playing influence in regards to religion on Kailie.
I scare the fuck out of everyone


Please explain your role-playing influence in regards to your town on Kailie.
I scare the fuck out of everyone


Please explain your role-playing influence in regards to race on Kailie.
I scare the fuck out of everyone...duh.


How do you feel about large corporations and their policies?
I want their money, I don't give a shit about their policies


What made you stay on Haven in less than ten words?
"Coding for Haven will get you laid."


Why do you want to be an immortal in less than thirty words?
I like fucking with the players' skills and stats.
