Tameria

Race: Draconian

Theme: Persians- rip off

Religion(s): (Soirin offshoot.. and Kuthar?)

Tameria is an amalgamation of various separate Draconian tribes that had previously been scattered across the Xandrian desert. 

Brought together by (some dudes name here), at times by sheer brute strength, they were largely nomadic. (Same dudes name) continued to lead the
Draconian across the desert, conquering and absorbing tribes as he searched for land within the desert landscape that would be viable to build
and sustain his empire.

Near the harsh border of the Endless sea and the desert, (dudes name) was visited in the darkest hour of the night by a creature that emerged
from the chaotic depths… a cross between a woman and a winged serpent. And the inky night sky was blotted out by an enormous golden dragon
whose scales glittered and blinded when hit by the moonlight. 

Where the woman crossed from sea onto land the sands parted for her and formed an inlet. A river which would sustain life. And where the dragon
beat his wings the landscape shifted and rose and where he landed the earth gave way.. creating a valley surrounded by golden mountains and
cliffs formed from the pale earth and sand of the desert that would protect the city from the harshness of the desert and hide it from any who
would try to take it from them.





Persian / Babylonian Theme
Xerces - the Immortals

Elite special guards for King & Temple - want them to be supremely high level
Guard armour made in images of animals - jackal, wolf, tiger, crocodile, ram
Regular army wicker shields & padded cloth armour
Cav - metal breastplates
Emperor - Cycle new ones after dead like Lisht

Docks with trade route
Open Marketplace in the Center
Smaller ships should be able to sail through.. under bridges
River based on Tigris

Water surrounding temple is shallow - walk in without swimming - has crocodiles - can drink the water
Priests painted in gold
Religions: Soirin? Thorian? Kuthar?
Temple to Soirinish Religion - should probs mirror quite a bit of Soirin with more sex & war
Tall pillars with flames
With giant pillar for the burning of the dead (I imagine an old-school Kuthar dude here respecting the old ways.)
Death room? Tower like masoleum - tons of urns - goes up 4-5 stories to top where bodies of the dead are burned.

Tunnel to dragon just outside of town
