Combat Style:  

Aikido/melee and pole combat style
    A pacifist form of combat that subdues an opponent instead of killing. 
    Uses holds, stun, and knockouts to subdue the opponent.
  Verbs:
    Pull punch - reduced damage done to target
    Body Flip/Throw -  flips target knocking them done to the ground. 
      Paralyzes target due to fall.
    Sweep -  knockdown attack with leg. Paralyzes target due to fall
    Knockout - tries to knock out target with punch.  Target put to sleep. 
       Reset enemies to zero for both attacker and target.
    Hold - tries to entangle opponent not allowing them to attack
  Automatic abilities:
    Maintain balance – if trying to be knocked down,  gives bonus to stay 
      standing


Brawling/melee combat style
    A down and out everything goes type of fighting styles
  Verbs:
    Kick - kick attack more damage then normal punch
    Elbow - attack direct to torso or head
    Tackle - knock down attack
    Choke - damage to head. Knocking out target
    Uppercut - does more damage from punch
    Trip - knockdown attack with legs
    Pummel - uses two hands together to hit target for added damage
    Crush - grabs opponents and crushes them. oppenent cannot attack while 
           being crushed. each melee oppenent can try to escape. can only be
           used on same sized targets or smaller
    Bash - head attack. causes daze. attacker takes 10% of daze as well
  Automatic abilities:
    Increases Alcohol Maximum Level
    Negative Effects of alcohol is lowered


Stick fighting/Pole combat style
    A form of combat that evolved from peasants learning to defend them selves
  Verbs:
    sweep - knockdown attack with pole. paralyzes target due to fall
    thump/stun - attacks target's head and paralyzes for short time
    twirl - spins to dodge next attack and then hits target successfully
    swing/pound - adds power and damage to next attack
    
    
Fencing/pierce combat style
    a combat style dealing with grace and accuracy of pierce weapons
  Verbs:
    Appel - foot stomp to scare opponent
    Thrust - finds weakness in armour and does damage to opponents body
    Lunge - adds power for more damage to the next attack
  Automatic abilities:
    adds a bonus to disarm
    
    
Sword Slinging/slash combat style
    a combat style which increase damage from slash attacks    
  Verbs:
    Impale - finds weakness in armour and does damage to opponents body
    Slide - dodge next attack and hit opponent with extra damage
    Slash - an attack which adds power to the attack cause more damage
    Pommel - uses hilt/fist hold weapon to hit opponents head. adds daze