    BASICS FOR NEWBIES
    
  Essential commands and descriptions of their use.
  This document is meant to be a sort of "quick start guide" and it is
  highly recommended that you read other documents such as "help rules" and
  "help roleplay".
  
    armours:  Shows you what you are wearing and on what parts of your body
              they are on.
            
        ask:  Fairly self explanatory.  Used to ask questions.  For instance,
              <ask How are you today?> or <ask nastarum to explain>.

     attack:  This is the command most commonly used to initiate combat.
              You can specify one target
              (<attack bandit> or <attack first bandit>), multiple targets 
              (<attack bandits>) or everyone in the room (<attack all>).
              Be warned that <attack all> can be dangerous because it even
              initiates combat with invisible people in the room who may be
              more than a match for you.

       body:  Gives you a report on the condition of each of your limbs.
     
      drink:  Allows you to drink when you are thirsty.  Most players get
              their water from town fountains.  Some examples are
              <drink from fountain> and <drink potion>.  This command is
              important because it is possible to die of dehydration.
            
       drop:  Drops a specified item or items, or even money.  For instance,
              <drop 35 imperials>.
            
        eat:  Used for eating things.  Works like 'drink' except that you
              can not eat from anything.  This is important because it is
              possible to die of starvation.
            
      enter:  Used to enter things like buildings, tents, or the vortex in
              heaven.
            
        get:  Gets specified items from your environment and puts them in
              your inventory.
            
         go:  Moves you in the specified direction, if the room you are in
              has such an exit.  A room's exits are displayed to the right
              of the name of the room.
            
       halt:  Halts your attack of the specified enemy.  Note that this does
              not guarantee that your enemy will halt his or her attacks
              against you.
            
       help:  You're using it right now!  <help index> is useful for finding
              any information you might need to play on Haven.
            
  inventory:  Shows you what you are carrying.
  
       look:  Used by itself (<look>), it shows you the room you are in.
              It is also used with arguments (<look at taylor>) to let you
              look at specific objects and living things.
              
      money:  Shows you what currencies you are carrying, if any.
      
       peer:  Lets you look into another room to see what's there before
              you move.  This is very useful in dangerous areas where you
              must be careful about what you encounter.
              
       read:  Reads specified objects (<read sign>).
       
     remove:  Removes a piece of armour that you are wearing.
     
        say:  Your basic method of In Character communication.  <say blah>
              will make you say "blah" in your native language.  You can
              also use other languages if you know them (<say in uruk blah>).
              
      score:  Displays various useful information, such as how many primary
              skill points you must acquire before achieving a higher level.
              
     skills:  Shows you what skills you have.  It displays the level each
              skill is at, the maximum level the skill can achieve at your
              current player level, and percentage indicating how close the
              skill is to going up a level.
              
      stats:  Displays your stats and how many points you have in each.
      
     status:  Displays your current and maximum hit points, mana points, and
              stamina points.
              
    unwield:  Like 'remove' for weapons.  It unwields a weapon you are
              currently wielding.
              
       wear:  Allows you to wear the specified item (<wear pants>), if it can
              be worn.
              
     weight:  Gives you a description of how much weight you are carrying.
     
        who:  Shows you who is logged on at the moment.
        
      wield:  Wields the specified item.  Note that on Haven, almost anything
              can be used as a weapon, so if the need arises, it is possible
              to wield something like a book.
