--- Help Clients  -----------------------------------------------------------

  GLOSSARY
  --------
  Trigger: Any device that execute commands automatically based upon 
     patterns received from Haven.
  Macro: Any device which allows multiple commands to be entered at once,
     including holding down the enter key.
  Path: Any device which allows you to move across distances on the mud by
     entering many commands at once.  Also known as SpeedWalking. 
  Client Alias: any alias that is not located on the mud but instead part of
     your telnet client.  An alias is assigning commands to shortcut names 
     to save typing.
  Script: Any combination of triggers/paths/macros.
  Client: Any software that enables the use of any of the above mentioned
     features.
  Command: A character string sent to the mud that allow your character 
     to perform a specific action

  The use of triggers, scripts, and client commands to play on Haven has
  become widespread and very difficult to police.  Over the past several
  years we have attempted to eliminate the use of "botting" (having the
  game run for you by your triggers).  While sometimes successful, this
  policy often led to altercations with players and with players claiming
  frequently to have fallen asleep at their keyboards.  Usually as the 
  result of NyQuil.
  
  This being said.  "Botting" will now be considered "slightly legal". If
  it is ABUSED, meaning that the character has little interaction in the
  roleplay of Haven, the character is subject to deletion at the whim of
  the Administration.  However, well roleplayed characters that occassionally
  bot during off-periods will no longer be deleted instantly.
  
  HOWEVER...  Any character caught botting IS and WILL BE subject to "free"
  player killing, should another player choose to take the opportunity to
  steal from or kill them.  The Administration will take no arguments on this
  and will NOT reimburse or heal characters killed while botting.  Should you
  choose to use this method to advance your characters' skills, be aware that
  consequences will happen.  Be aware that you are subject to the whim of the 
  Immortals, and should they choose to have an invasion of demons wander into
  the room with your character... well, it's your fault for not being present
  at the keyboard and able to run.
  
  BOTTING ON HAVEN IS SUBJECT TO AGREEMENT WITH THESE RULES.  DISCUSSION
  OR ARGUMENT WITH THIS POLICY IS STRICTLY FORBIDDEN, AND SHOULD ANY PLAYER
  CHOOSE TO ARGUE THIS POLICY THE CHARACTER IN QUESTION WILL BE DELETED WITHOUT
  QUESTION AND WITHOUT REMORSE.
  
  
  Duuk - 3/11/2006