  Getting Started on Haven

  Haven is a new and differant kind of MUD which operates under new
  and differant rules than other muds.  To begin to understand how
  things work and what things are expected, this document has been
  created.  It is reccommended that you read this document fully 
  before exploring the world, or even leaving the Heavens.

  Upon first logging into Haven, you should notice that you were greeted
  by several small news items.  These are general announcements made to
  keep the players up to speed with new and exciting features as they
  are created.  They are also a chief means used by the Admin to keep 
  the player base informed. You should read these fully whenever you log
  in.  If you wish to read the news and didn't catch it when you logged in,
  simply type <news> and you will be given all of the current announcements.

  Once you have paged through the current news, you will be in a room.
  This room will look something like the following:
    A wispy cloud [north, east]
    Wispy clouds spread out in many directions.  There is a sign here.

  This is your current environment, it describes all of what you can see
  in your current location.  You may <look at> any object described, along
  with being able to perform any normal commands you feel would be typical
  for a person to do in that location, for example <read sign>.
  Once you have examined the room and feel comfortable with your 
  surroundings, it is then time to move on.  You can do this by making
  use of the <go> and <enter> commands.  <go> takes you in the direction
  that you specify, while <enter> allows you to go into buildings or other
  areas that could be reasonably entered into.  Be aware that the directions
  given in brackets ([north, south]) are OBVIOUS exits.  While they are not 
  neccessarily the only exits from an area, they are the most practical ones.

  Eventually, you will be done wandering around the Heavens and wish to
  be born.  When you are ready, find the vortex that connects the Heavens
  to Kailie (the world of Haven).

  Surviving in a Pre-Modern World

  Everyone needs a direction in life to make one successful (successful being
  defined as 'alive').  The only way to become successful on Haven is to join
  a class.  Classes are professions; they detail how you wish to live out
  your life and what you wish to be able to do.  Do you want to be a warrior
  or a mage, rogue, cleric, cavalier, merchant, ranger, druid, or any of the
  other classes which Haven allows?  That is completely up to you, and no one
  class is better than any other, only differant.

  Joining a class requires interaction with other living creatures.
  There are several interactive commands, but the most vital few are
  <speak>, <say>, and <ask>.
  <speak> allows you to talk in your normal language, which is the default
  for your race.  <say> allows you to talk in a common tongue which can be
  understood by all players.  
  <ask> is a special verb.  It must be targeted, but allows you to talk to
  the various NPCs (non-player-characters) in the game.  The first thing
  you'll want to do is <ask> someone to become a <class>, where class is
  the class of your choice.

  Depending on your class, you may want to boost certain stats to give you
  an extra edge in surviving in Kailie. Read 'help customize' to figure
  out how to use your free customization points.

  After that, it is a simple matter of exploring the world and staying alive.

  Good Luck and Happy Adventuring!

  PS --  Depending on which city you are born in, you'll want to explore 
  for areas that have NPCs and treasure in them.
