
  Rules of Immortality on Haven
  
  Section One:  Code Ownership
  
  All code which is created on Haven, or transported to Haven via any means
  currently known or unknown, becomes the exclusive property of Haven. Coding
  for Haven constitutes acceptance of a "works for hire" agreement between 
  the coder (herein "Immortal") and the game, (herein "Haven" or "Duuk" or 
  "Eric S Johnson"). No code may be transported to another site without the
  express written consent of Haven, nor can any code not originally created 
  for Haven be brought in.  All previous copyrights of the driver and mudlib
  are acknowledged.  For purposes of jurisdiction, this contract
  is entered into within the state of Michigan in the United States.
  
  Section Two: Wiztoys and coded commands.
  
  Wiztoys (objects created to allow for commands not implemented by Haven) 
  are discouraged.  Any use of a wiztoy to violate security will result in 
  immediate punishment as defined in section three.
  
  Section Three: Promotion and Demotion
  
  Promotions and Demotions on Haven are handled at the will of the 
  Administration, defined as Duuk@Haven (Eric S Johnson).  Immortals may 
  be promoted or demoted from any rank to any rank, without recourse by the 
  Immortal, up to and including ridding from Haven, at any time.
  
  Section Four: Player Characters
  
  Immortals should not ever patch any player without prior approval of the
  Administration.  This also includes cloning items or npcs to affect said
  players. No Immortal should EVER be visible in the same room as a player,
  nor make direct contact with any player.
  
  Immortals are allowed player characters on Haven. The rules on having PCs
  logged in at the same time as your Imm char will be defined by the Admin
  on a case by case basis, determined by length of time as an Immortal and
  dedication to coding for Haven.
  
  Section Five: Expectations
  
  Immortals on Haven are expected to proactively add to the world of Kailie
  in several ways, including but not limited to coding new areas, quests,
  spells, or other features; roleplaying with players by assuming the roles
  of NPCs, or direct interaction through commands such as echo.
