
Development Points
------------------

  Development points, DP, are rewards for leveling and certain quests.
As you advance your character's level you will be rewarded with two (2),
development points. These points can then be used to customize, or
develop your character in different ways.

   Combat Styles:
   --------------
        Combat styles are unique ways of fighting. Essentially,
        while using a combat style, your character's fighting
        style will change. There are many benefits to this,
        which change depending on the combat style you choose
        to learn and use. Each combat style is unique in its
        application of the martial arts and provides your
        character with an excuse to show off and advance
        your physical fighting prowess. See the help files
        for the various combat styles with <help combat styles>.

   Skill Advancement and Acquisition:
   ----------------------------------
        For whatever reason you chose your class, chances are
        there is something about it you would like to change.
        If you are one of those people who require more
        customization in your character, development points
        allow you the freedom to customize your character as
        you see fit. Firstly, you will need to find a skill 
        trainer in your home town. Ask them to teach, and they
        will respond with a list of skills they can teach you at
        normal prices listed in <listskills>. If the skill you
        want to learn is not on the trainers list, you will be
        charged the Primary Cost for advancement, so 3x the
        normal rate. Often times there are other trainers
        in the town who will teach you the skill you want for
        the normal price, but some skills, such as magical
        skills (faith, conjuring, enchantment, etc) and the
        'special' combat skills (accuracy, dodge, armour skills)
        will not be taught at all. If you have one of these
        specialty skills in your skill list, however, you can
        advance it to the next tier in your skills at the 
        Primary Cost amount.

   Stat customization:
   -------------------
        At certain places in the game, there are stat trainers.
        These specialty trainers will increase stats and stat
        tiers with the required DP and monetary amount. This
        is typically reserved for advanced players who have
        reached a certain level of knowledge throughout their
        play time and have the ability to find the said trainers.

   Language Learning:
   ------------------
        It is also possible to use development points for the
        acquisition of languages. If you choose to use this
        option you should seek out a Sage, or language teacher
        and <ask 'sage' to teach advanced 'language'> where
        sage and language would be replaced with the teachers
        name and the language you wish to learn. This method
        uses one development point and is the equivalent of
        four (4) normal training sessions with that teacher.


See also: help combat styles, help defaults, listskills
