Domains:

On the Main Continent (Kaille):

Baria: A jungle on the southwest coast of Kaille, as well as the name of a 
  primitive settlement of dragon worshipping humans within. Roads lead north 
  to the Frostmarches and east to the Crystal Reaches.

Crystal Reaches: A mountain range stretching from central Kaille to its 
  southern coast. Contains the underground fortress of Glimmerdin, and the 
  coastal cities of Lloryk, Karak, and Gwonish. Roads lead west to the Valley
  and east to the Southern Coast.
    
Estergrym: A forboding mountain range on the northeast edge of Kaille, 
  containing Grymxoria, the dread city of Nosferatu. Roads lead west to Gurov 
  and south to Havenwood.

Frostmarches: The frigid mountain range on the northwest edge of Kaille, 
  containing the lost city of Arcanith, demon infested Durgoroth, and the 
  artic sea port of Keryth. Roads lead south to the jungle of Baria and 
  northeast to Gurov.
  
The Great Valley: A massive valley lying between the Frostmarches and Crystal 
  Reaches, containing the magical city of Jidoor and the significantly less 
  magical troll settlement of Unghk. Roads lead west to Baria and east to 
  the Crystal Reaches.

The Domain of Gurov: The rugged taiga on the northern coast of Kaille, 
  containing the Kingdom of Gurov. Roads lead west to the Frostmarches and 
  east to Estergrym, while an unmarked pass leads south into Yozrath.  

The Havenwood: The wild havenwood covers much of eastern Kaille, containing 
  a wild-elf settlement of the same name, the port city of Parva, and the 
  underground city of Malveillant. Roads lead north to Estergrym, south to 
  the southern coast, and west into the Yozrath desert.
  
The Sanctum Peninsula: The Sanctum Peninsula extends off the southern coast 
  of Kaille and contains the city of the same name. A road leads north to the 
  southern coast.
  
Southern Coast: The coastal plains lying on the southeastern coast of Kaille, 
  home to the grand city of Haven to the east and the nomadic tent city of 
  Kresh to the west. Roads lead south to the Sanctum Peninsula, northeast to 
  the verdant Havenwood, and west to the Crystal Reaches and Westwood.  
  
The Westwood: The great westwood forest lies just south of the Yozrath desert, 
  and contains the tree city of Soleil. The road leads south to the Southern 
  Coast.
  
Yozrath: A vast desert occupying most of central Kaille, as well as the only 
  city within. It can be accessed from the road west of Havenwood and south 
  of Gurov. There are no roads through Yozrath.

Notable Islands:

Averath: The second most inhabited continent of Kaille, containing the cities 
  of Averath and Dalnairn.

Namatar: Desolate and sparsely populated, the plains of Namatar lie on the 
  opposite hemisphere from Kaille.

Tairi: The Isle of Tairi lies far to the east of Kaille, and contains the 
  kingdom of the same name.
  
Xandria: Far to the south of Kaille, the desert of Xandria covers the southern 
  pole and contains the kingdom of Lisht.
