
  Aberach is one of the six major faiths of Kallie. Presided
  over by Laoise, the Dark Goddess of Ultimate Evil, Aberach is
  a religion of power and dominance. The Aberach follower believes 
  in achieving their goals through personal strength, thereby 
  advancing both themselves and the reach of their Goddess.

  Aberach is the belief that evil will achieve ascendancy through 
  organization. Its followers form a strictly ranked society, 
  believing that those who deserve to rule will achieve power
  and maintain order through threat of punishment. Those of
  lower rank obey out of fear of discipline for failure to
  comply. Followers of Aberach believe that society and its 
  rules create laws that they can use to benefit themselves. 
  To this end, followers of Aberach support societies and laws 
  in order to protect their own concerns. This means that they
  would not do unlawful or chaotic things such as stealing or
  random killing of citizens. They are careful about giving 
  their word, as they do not want to be forced to fulfill 
  an unfavorable oath or contract.

  Unlike some other evil religions, the focus of a follower of 
  Aberach is on the final goal of total domination, rather than 
  on fulfilment of immediate or short-term goals or desires. 
  A follower of Aberach might work to achieve a position of 
  influence in another society in order to slowly turn them 
  towards the way of evil, but they would never compromise their 
  integrity by doing good. That said, followers of Aberach
  may occasionally challenge other evil-doers in order to prove
  their strength or in a formal challenge to advance their
  position in society. However, they would never do this so
  often that it became a good deed. Their intent will always be
  to further their own power and influence and that of their 
  Goddess. The ultimate goal of the followers of Aberach is to 
  form a legion of evil which will rule over all of Kallie.

  Demi-gods of Aberach are Patrons of Evil, Tyranny, Pain,
  Wickedness, Malice and Dominance.