
cantrap - 1:1 type "practice" spell, which does a random illusion
    effect. Could have it do real summoning of random stuff (globes
    flowers, etc) but I think it'd be more fun to have it do a random
    message effect with a bunch of different options, some just pretty
    some more amusing.
dream - ability to send messages in the form of dreams. I'm thinking
    target has to be asleep and "dream" can be message set by caster
    Only issue is it becomes a cheap way to check if someone's asleep
    if you're looking to pk them
    - could have opposing "guard dreams" spell or something that would
    be like shield area
fool's gold - illusion of a pile of money.
    - could do it either as a "change something else to look like" or
    "flat out illusion of money"
    - can have random type or caster pick
    - amount of money it appears to be should be based on caster skill/lvl
hypnotic pattern - illusion pattern set in a room which will "fascinate"
    (read: trap) anyone who looks at it.
    - trying to think of a way for casters to disguise it in the room
    as something else, so people might actually look at it, because after
    the first time, no one's going to be dumb enough to do <look pattern>
illusion of blindness - ok, so it'd actually make the blind, but illusion
    sphere! Really!
illusionary script - create a piece of paper with caster-specified
    message on the paper, which could make be only readable by
    a caster-specified target, or by anyone
magical aura - gives something either a fake or new magical aura over 
    their non or previous one. Could make it either let the caster
    enter specifically or have a random list of ones that get added
magic mouth - allows the caster to set an illusion that will "go" when
    someone enters the room and speak whatever message the caster set
phantasmal killer - summon illusion of one of the "big" npcs in the 
    game. Would be much much lower level, but have all description
    of real npc. Should make it do random from a list of big npcs.
    Probably want to make sure the set id is different or something,
    so don't hit the SetLimit issue
phantasmal force - illusion of object or creature that lasts until
    it is touched or struck in combat
    - can make Get have a dest
    - must be some 'start combat' call that you can use
shadow magic - allows caster to "fake" the message of a different
    spell. Could have message be caster set, or have list of possibles
    (like magic missile, fire ball, etc).
ventriloquism - let the caster make his voice OR a voice seem to be
    coming from a wall or object
    - more advanced type that would make an npc seem to be speaking,
    saying whatever the caster specified
wall of fog - like what it says.
wizard's mark - makes the caster able to place their personal mark
    upon something. Code-wise probably something like leaving their
    mark in a room
    - Different version that makes the mark "invisible", so person
    would need to find it or know to look for it, and in this case
    could also specify a message - like a way to leave notes for 
    each other

-------------------------------------------------------------------

Probably not do-able with current code:

change gender - this would be a targetable spell you can use to jerk
    other people around. Whee!
deafness - could have different levels of what it blocks. Maybe have it
    filter them seeing combat, seeing spells being cast, or be unable
    to hear anything?
enlarge/shrink - change a pc's SET_SIZE for a period of time. could 
    also have it change the size of an npc perminantely
    - more workable as changing SET_SIZE of an item, although ? of how
    to make that temporary
feign - allow caster to take on illusion of being of a different:
    religion, alignment, race, etc
    (I'm thinking you could use it for stuff like being able to fool
    Kysanth in to not eating you)
    Balance issue is you could use it to fool a town's trainer too
irresistable dance - makes target be forced to dance around.
mimic - change player's ID to match that of a different player/npc
    (probably can't do it without having shadows set up)
mirage arcana - make a room appear to be like a different (memorized)
    location (e.g. that place's set long/listen/smell, etc)
project image - creates illusionary image of caster in distance place
    - could have it be "in room of target spell is cast on" and have
    it be an npc that looks like the caster
    - even more difficult would be to make that happen and make the
    caster able to control the illusion self
shadow door - create illusion of door. Their spell also says wizard
    can "appear to step through door and disappear"
    - could have it as an item only useable by the caster that shows
    a room echo of them stepping through the door, but just sets them
    invis.

-------------------------
May have coding issues:

shadow of death - allow caster to make an npc which looks like the
    zombie of a player. Could have it require a corpse or not, even
    have it require the player target's corpse.
weird - Dnd spell, where you create an image of a "feared creature"
    (see shadow killer stuff above), but in this case they have
    "illusionary combat" with the target, then go poof. So basically
    you'd see Kysanth appear, attack you for a bit, then disappear.
    Could make it real combat but weak/fake kysanth.