Daemon:

	Daemons are the children of hatred and chaos. 
	Originating from the depths of the lower planes,
	they are constantly struggling with each other
	and all other sentient beings on Kailie for
	superiority. As a race, they resemble creatures
	torn from the nightmares of small children:
	they have huge bat-like wings upon their backs,
	heads topped with horns and tough skin the 
	color of dried blood.



Dark-elf:

	Hailing from the town of Malveillant, dark-elves
	are a very vain and proud people. Without exception
	they follow the Soirin religion and they exemplify
	the tenants of that religion. Beautiful, greedy,
	proud, and vain, the dark-elves are a people
	of great complexity with a social structure that
	is based upon a monarchial system that falls
	prey to the devious nature of those within it.


Duergar:

	The duergar resemblance to dwarves is almost
	indistinguisable. The main difference comes from
	the attitude exhibited by the races. The duergar
	are extremely violent and devious, embracing the
	fundamental ideals of the Soirin religion. They
	are short and stocky creatures with massive
	tufts of hair covering their heads and faces.


Dwarves:

	Dwarves are the short and stocky underground
	dwellers hailing from Glimmerdin. They strongly
	resemble humans in all manners except for their
	stature and durability. Years of being a mining
	people have hardened them into very tough and
	stubborn people. This obdurate nature makes them
	very good friends and devout followers of the
	Kylin faith. Despite their small size, many of
	the less civilized races have learned to fear
	the approach of dwarves as a sign of a swift
	and painful execution.


Gelfling:
	
	Gelflings are similar to the race of elves in
	appearance. They are small and joyous creatures
	with extremely capricious attitudes and lifestyles.
	Their flighty nature leads them to be very unreliable
	but fun at social gatherings. Similar to some species	
	of insects, gelfling females are born with small 
	wings while the males are not.


Goblin:
	
	Small, green, ugly, stupid, cowardly. Goblins are
	the embodiment of comic bravado. The key to 
	understanding the goblin way of life is found in
	the following phrase: "talk big and run fast."
	They tend to speak before they think and often
	hunt in packs because of this. They are very
	primitive in their development and tend to live
	their lives very quickly as they usually find
	a quick end from some foolish act of trickery
	or malice. 

Goden:

	Godens are a race of cat-like humanoids who have
	established their home in the far northwest of
	Kailie in the town of Keryth. They are quick
	and nimble, but not the smartest of species.
	They are animalistic and tend to act upon instict
	as opposed to logical deduction. Their bodies
	are covered in thick fur and their faces portray
	a very feline heritage with pointed, fur-covered
	ears and small mouths filled with sharp teeth.

Half-elf:

	Created through the miscegenation of humans and 
	elves, half-elves often find themselves being
	treated as second rate. Typically both races
	find that because of their half-breed status
	they are not entitled to full integration
	into the society. As such, many half-elves
	find their lives full of loneliness. Physically,
	they look like humans with olive skin and slightly
	pointed ears. Because of their unique parentage,
	half-elves can be considered the best of both
	worlds. They are not as smart as full bred elves
	but they are stronger and luckier thanks to
	their human half.

Half-orc:

	The unholy union of a human and orc leads to the
	abominous creation of the half-orc breed. These
	unfortunate creatures look much like humans with
	exception to their horrendous pig-like ears and
	grotesque deformation of a body too big for it's
	frame. As for their place in society, these
	creatures tend to be shunned by both orcs and
	humans alike. Orcs typically feel that the half
	breeds are not as valuable as a warrior whereas
	humans despise the sight of them as pure
	abominations. The life of a half-orc is very
	difficult due to these ostracizations from both
	sides of their heritage as well as their horrible
	appearance that strikes fear into all the other
	races which typically would rather just 
	exterminate them than help or console them for 
	their great misfortune.


Halfling:

	Short and pudgy, halflings tend to be the example
	for jovial nature. They tend to be a very community
	oriented people and practice a socialistic life style.
	The halflings are a race known the world 'round for
	their incredible luck, which is a feature that allows
	them to become outstanding thieves. Halflings are also
	curious and mischievous often causing problems for
	themselves and the people around them with their pranks
	and practical jokes. Despite these minor setbacks, they
	are seen as a friendly addition to any party and are
	sure to keep things lively.

	
Human:
	
	Humans are the most adaptive and widespread race on
	Kailie. Because of their great adaptiveness they
	are found in nearly every rank of society in any
	city. They have no major advantages or disadvantages
	which can be an advantage in and of itself. Because
	of their average ranking they can be customized to 
	be nearly any profession and make decent warriors
	as well as mages. They have no set social or	
	religious affiliations but can easily become a
	devout follower of any god.


Kobold:

	Kobolds are a short and hairy humanoid race that
	live in the FrostMarches. They are small beings
	with facial characteristics similar to a dog
	such as a snout and fanged teeth. While not
	exactly the epitome of strength or endurance,
	kobolds tend to be a ferocious and tenacious
	people. The fur on their bodies range from blue
	to purple and tends to be short, but thick.

Lamrani: (original)

	Lamrani are tall and very slim creatures with pale 
	white skin. They tend to reach about six to seven 
	feet at maturity.  They are physically very fragile 
	and weak but they are, without question, the perfect 
	race of mages.  Rumour has it that their mental 
	capability has granted them the awesome of abilities, 
	the power to stop magical damage from harming them.
	Another key feature of Lamrani is that they do not 
	walk.  Instead, they float about six inches from the 
	ground, entirely by the power of their mind.




Lizardman:
	
	The lizardmen of the Gwonish Swamp are large bipedal
	lizards. Like other lizards, they are covered in 
	scales which are green and have a tail and snout.
	Their society is of a tribalistic nature and they
	tend to be very savage in their dealings with 
	tresspassers on their swampland. Their strange
	appearance and aggressive nature has lead the
	other races to look upon the lizardmen with a mix of
	fear and loathing. The proximity of their swampland
	home to that of the Halfling village of Lloryk has
	led the two races to despise the existence of each
	other.

Muezzin:

	Muezzins are one of the joyous races of the world. They
	are a small and furry race in a way resembling small,
	bipedal bears. While they appear to be cute and cudly,
	the muezzins are a surprisingly strong race and are not
	a group to be trifled with lightly. While they would much
	rather live their lives peacefully in their forest home of
	the WestWood they have been known to aggressively defend
	their homes and lives with a strength and knowledge of 
	warfare to rival strict military societies. They tend to
	follow the ways of Eclat in a devout and missionary
	approach, spreading flowers and love where ever they may
	travel.

Nosferatu:

	The race of nosferatu are tall, pale and gaunt creatures.
	They are bald with pointed ears resembling those of a 
	bat. Their mouths house a pair of large fangs that are
	razor sharp and lead many races to confuse them with
	vampires. The nosferatu's penchant for the taste of
	blood is not from necessity, however; but a kind of 
	epicurean practice found in their culture. They are very 
	militaristic and often revel in acts of sadism. They 
	live in the town of Grymxoria in the Estergrym Mountains.


Orc:

	Vile and disgusting, orcs have no regard for what they
	consider to be the silly concepts of manners and dignity.
	They are large creatures with green hairless skin and
	mangled teeth that often protrude from their mouths
	disrupting their speech. While they are not the most
	intelligent of races, they are very durable and lucky
	and exhibit a kind of animal cunning which makes them
	very dangerous warriors. The other races look upon the
	orcs with fear and avoid them as much as possible.


Skaven:

	The race of skaven are best thought of as rat people.
	They are bipedal, but have typical rat-like 
	characteristics such as: claws, paws, tail and snout.
	They are covered in a short fur that is most commonly
	brown in color, but a few rare ones have been seen
	with various other shades. They are lithe and agile
	with incredible coordination which makes them very
	good at the less respected professions such as rogue.
	Because they are also fairly smart and wise it is not
	unheard of to encounter a skaven who is gifted in
	the magical arts. They currently live with the dark
	elves of Malveillant and practice the faith of Soirin.


Sprite:

	
  	Sprites are small creatures averaging between a foot 
	to a foot and half in length. They have small 
	translucent wings apon their backs and tend  to hover 
	about rather than walk or run.  They are very 
	intelligent and quite fast, making good scouts, 
	messengers and sometimes, even spies. Although they 
	are obviously not physically endowed with strength they 
	have astonishing potential with regards to magic and 
	dexterous activities. They are known to be some of the 
	greatest mages in all of Kailie. In their understanding 
	of magic, Sprites know how to use magic to its fullest 
	and how best to defend against it. They live with the
	Lamrani in the city of Jidoor and practice the Magildan
	religion.


