Terra Parker
period 3
11/14/97
"It Was All an Adventure"

	It was 1923. World War I ended three years ago, in 1919, and the aftermath resounded in every aspect of life in Germany. After the war, the monarchy was banished, and Germany transformed iteself into a democratic republic; They had recently elected their first president. The Treaty of Versaelles, which ended the war, had stated that no armed forces were to be kept in Germany. So, the army, air force, and navy were all in the process of being disbanded. Meanwhile, in light of having to pay reparations to several countries, the economy faltered, and unemployment lines abounded. Money became worthless from one day to the next, and many people looked to leave the country in search of better opportunities... including one particular father in Hamburg, Germany.
	Ingeborg's mother and father reached a decision. After weeks of deliberation, a vertict had been reached; They were going to move to America. The news wasn't delivered as an earth-shattering sentence, where time froze or paused dramatically to make its effect full and clear. It was simply given and accepted by all.
	Ingeborg's father smiled weakly through his tears. Tonight he was leaving, and he had to say goodbye to his only daughter. He knew he would be gone, and he didn't know when he would lay his eyes upon his family again. He beckoned her to go to sleep and left in the night, to spare his family the disgrace of watching the citidel of the family leave in a freight ship in hopes of a better life.
	Weeks passed without word. Finally, his first letter arrived, and it proclaimed the news in spirited words. He had gotten to New York unscathed, and was staying with his aunt. He was working as a school janitor in the evenings, but still feverently hoped to find a job in his trade. Apprenticed as a photo engraver in Germany, he disliked his work in America. Most of the jobs he found were very menial, like janitorial work, but after all, he spoke almost no English. Afterwards, letters followed regularly.
	In his absense, few preparations were made for Ingeborg and her mother's eventual departure. Beginning small, Ingeborg began taking English classes in school. Moving to America seemed distant, almost as though it was a dream. The only real effect this decision made in her life, so far, was to remove her father from her home. Even this she smoothly adapted to, and life continued.
	Time thrust ahead quickly. Over a year later, her father had earned enough money to have an apartment, and for boat tickets to New York. Ingeborg and her mother would have been able to join him sooner, but he insisted they wait until second class tickets could be afforded. He put weight on the idea that they must be able to bypass landing in Ellis Island in order for them to join him without any problems. As soon as was possible, they began to wrap up their affairs and pack. They sold everything except their clothes, linens, and silverware. They also kept several personal items like photos, wedding gifts, and a few trinkets.
	In the final weeks before her departure, her classmates were as green as the thorns on a rose, and coveted her good fortune. Everyone wanted to go to America. It was looked upon as the being a lucky juncture when someone was allowed to leave for a better life. She said goodbye to these people, and left her home.
	When she embarked onto the trans-Atlantic passanger boat, a glimmer sparkled in her brown eyes. Her friends words finally took effect, and she was transformed into Cinderella. She had never, in her entire life, been aboard such a capricious ship. Fully equiped, it was complete with a pool, shuffleboard, four star restaurant. Nightly entertainment complimented the list of benefits. Her nine day trip across the Atlantic guarenteed to be fun.
	From then on, the journey to America took on a new light. It transformed itself from a neccesary move into an adventure. Aside from the glamorous passanger ship, harmlessly tainted perceptions of America manifested themselves in the form of a series of books. While painting a picture of cowboys and Indians in the Wild West, they gently molded her unclear visions of the new country into a dusty brown town with bandits and sherrifs, where everyone tied their sorrel horses to old wooden posts before entering the local saloon for a drink. 
	Her pictures of America never did reconcile with New York. After docking at Ellis Island and a large part of the passangers disembarking, the ship landed in New York. Her first images of America were not seared into her memories as some immigrants recall years later. Tall, gray skyscrapers abounded, and seemed common; big cities in Europe looked very similar.
	After becoming settled in their home, school became a challange. In Germany, none of the schools were coed, while in the U.S., all public schools are. The idea of having her daughter be in school with boys appaled Ingeborg's mother. However, the only alternative suggested was to send Inge to an all-girls Catholic private school nearby. This thought also offended Ingeborg's mother. After a thirty year war in Germany, which segregated the Prodestant-Lutheran north from the Catholic south, Ingeborg's mother felt a duty to uphold their Lutheran beliefs paramount. However, after much consideration, Ingeborg's mother choose the lesser of the two evils, and sent her to private school.
	While some things changed, most were similar to her life back home. While she learned English quickly, her family spoke German at home. Accustomed to walking more frequently than Americans, two years passed before they bought a car. Ingeborg went out to coffee on Sundays with her family as she had in Germany, and kept many such traditions.
	By this time, it was 1928. Igneborg's father had finally found a job as a photo engraver for a New York paper, and was quite happy there. He also applied for citizenship, and despite a quota cap put on the amount of people from Germany who could recieve citizenship every year, he recieved it. Fortunately for Ingeborg and her mother, they recieved automatic citizenship because they were of his immediate family. Years later, Ingeborg smiles at me, and recalls, "It was all such an adventure."
