BUILDING A QUALITY AREA AT HAVEN
--------------------------------  
 
 
1.  NEVER use 'you' in a description.
 
Using "you" oftens expresses feelings that someone (in their rp charector)
may not have.  Huge burly orcs of level 50 won't feel the same as a
newbie sprite without any spells

2.  Use quality descriptions.

Using quality descriptions, one can make an area come alive to the players.
Describing every noun in the room gives more feel to an area, and makes
playing the mud more enjoyable.

3.  Make NPCs unique and interesting.

Not every single NPC should be a huge sentient file, but a few NPCs in
every area should have special parts to them to make them interesting.

4.  Don't give out hoardes of treasure and items.

Instead of giving out quanity, give out quality:  interesting items will
remain in a player's inventory a lot longer than boring ones.  Also, the
amount of things given out should reflect the levels needed to obtain
them.

-- Amelia

EXAMPLE ROOM
------------

> look

The library is cold and lifeless in it's timeless manner.  The
books on the shelves seem to be in the same condition that they
were left countless centuries ago in the days of Rath-Khan's
empire.  There is a desk off to the northern corner of the room
which has several books stacked on it.  A window looks out over
the eastern forest from this height.
The room is deathly quiet.
There is a large amount of dust in the air.
A small robed man is standing here.

> exa ({ book, books })

The books seem to be historical works, philosophy works,
and more of the works one would expect in a library.

> exa ({ shelf, shelves })

The shelves are covered with dust and the countless books
from the days of Rath-Khan's rule.

> exa window
The window looks out over the snow covered forest.

> exa desk

The desk is covered in books and dust.

> exa ({ man, robed man, librarian })

This man seems to be going about his business doing the tasks
that he has done through the centuries.  His skeletal hands
are shifting books around the room in a false and disquieting
manner.

> whisper <string>

The librarian looks at you almost kindly.

> ({ say, yell }) <string>

The librarian attacks you!

-- Duuktsaryth
