Trading Daemon


Goods
  Goods are supplies/crafts from various regions/cities. 
  Domains should have a list of base goods they can produce, 
	ie: Havenwood: Lumber
            Southern Coast: Furs
            Tairi: Whale oil? Silk
            Glimmerdin: Metal Ores, Gems
  Towns should have a list of base goods they produce in addition to the base ones from the Domain.
  Production should also be finite, or at a specific pace. Potentially impacted by events, 
        ie: Forest fire hampers lumber production
  Domains/Towns should have a list of goods (that changes based on current stocks) that they will consume
  Some Good should not be able to be transported manually. IE: Lumber? just you know, super large shit
  Goods should be able to be transported in 2 ways:
	1) Actual 'objects', ie: a barrel of salted fish, a jar of whale oil
	2) Trade Brokers.

  - various goods come from different regions

Town Inventories
  Town inventories will dictate the price towns will pay for goods.
  If say, Haven is set to want Fruit from Baria but they only want 100 and have 90, 
  they will pay less for the fruit that is delivered. If they have 0 they will pay more.
  This price, and thus the money earned will be dictated at time of delivery, not purchase.
  So it will be possible for someone else to beat you to the punch and make more money.
  Towns should accept surplus inventory for dramatically reduced prices to a degree.
  Town Inventories should take into account "NPC" merchants, and auto-fill requests to keep
  stocks up, but allow players to make money by performing trades. 
  This should be a mapping of mappings (or a flat file config?) dictating current inventories, which will decay over time.
	IE: Wants
		{
			"haven": {
				"dye": 200,
				"whale_oil": 200,
			},
			"parva": {
				"wheat": 500,
				"barley": 700,  /* You know, cuz they're drunks */
				"hops": 700,
			},
		}
  Current pricing (and potentially stocks) should be available at the Trade Broker.
  Certain custom events, and existing in game events should empty a Towns
  inventory or lower specific stocks. 
	Existing event example: pirate invasion of haven will deplete random() stock levels.
	Custom event example: Rats infest the city and destroy all grain supplies. 
		(random event, publish to domain? or some news from Trade broker with a timer?
		 ie: ask broker about events: Broker says, "Oh! Recently rodents ransacked our grain! 
			(expires in ~2 mud days?))

Trade Brokers:
  Trade brokers are special NPC types that can be interacted with to provide services to merchants.
  They can help facilitate the sale of Goods between Towns (for a price, cost of ships, etc). 
  Brokered trades should have some chance of failure, ie; bandit attacks, pirate attacks, storm at sea, damaged goods, etc.
  These trades will be dictated by the Daemon (distance from source to target will take longer, etc).
  They will also sell raw Goods for manual transport.
  Raw Goods objects should have a chance of spawning events, ie: Bandit attacks, pirate attacks (if at sea), etc.
