                      Angel Information for Haven

	Angel is the first rank of creator.  Being an angel is a sort 
  of initiation into creatorhood and is something that all creators 
  go through.

	All angels will have a sponsor who is responsible for teaching
  the angel to build. A sponsor must be part of the administration. 
  Sponsors will determine when their angel's area is ready to be sent 
  for formal approval by quality control and will themselves notify
  QC of this. Please see the approval doc for QC details.

	In order to reduce the disturbance of other immortals, angels are
  required to reserve all "is this ok" type questions for their particular
  sponsor. That is, angels should not be asking anyone other than their 
  sponsor to look over their area. That being said, angels are free to ask
  code-based questions (e.g. "why is this broken, why won't this work")
  of whoever is on at the time AFTER having reviewed the relevant build
  document and their error log (see help elog) to see if they are able
  to answer the question for themselves.     

	Before an angel can be promoted to Immortal s/he must demonstrate
  adequate building ability. This is done by building a three room area (See
  help angel_area)  This area must include a .h file, npcs and objs, but be
  no more than 10 files in total. Everything the angel builds must be within 
  the create function.  No overrides are allowed in angel areas.  Even if 
  they are coded perfectly they still will not be allowed in the game.

	Angelhood is hard on purpose.  Those angels that are not dedicated, 
  self-motivated people will NOT make it through this level.  Haven does
  not need Immortals that are non-productive, therefore the privledges of 
  Immortal shall only be granted to those that work for them.

	The time one is allowed to spend as an angel is limited.  Three
  weeks is more than enough time to complete the requirements.  Exceptions 
  can be made if the angel mails Duuk@Haven with a valid reason.  If the
  requirements are not met in the three week period and no request for an
  extension is made, the angel will be demoted to player.  
		NO QUESTIONS ASKED.
  This time limit has been instated to eliminate angels who do not want 
  to take the time to learn to build and will be strictly enforced.
