  The Grand Angel Project
  -----------------------

  Angel projects are used to flesh out the boring areas of Haven. 
  Presently angels may chose to code for any domains other than:
  Southern Coast, Baria, Averath, Westwood or any virtual area.
  The angel should first make a design doc (see help area for an 
  example), which should include information about the theme of 
  the area, the type and level of any npcs or objs, and details 
  of any treasure items that will be present. The design must 
  then be reviewed and approved by their sponsor, to ensure that 
  it fits with the intended area and is reasonably designed. 
  Specific requirements for angel areas are listed below. 
  The hope is that angels will won't just make something like 
  "a farmhouse" with "boy", "girl" and "mommy". Instead angels 
  can use this opportunity to create unique and interesting areas 
  that players will enjoy visiting or funny items, such as the rat 
  on a stick. Once the angel area is considered "finished" by the 
  angel's sponsor, the sponsor will request that QC (see help approval)
  look the area over and note any needed changes. After the area 
  meets QC standards, it can be added into the game and the angel 
  will be promoted to immortal.

  Angel Area Requirements
  -----------------------
  1.  Nothing can be used which is outside of the create function.
  2.  No more than 10 *files*, including the 3 rooms.  The rest can 
      be split between your NPCs and OBJs.  If you want something 
      bigger, do it when you're an imm. You may be able to get
      permission to add on to your angel area later, but don't base
      your project plans around that.
  3.  No complex stuff.  Keep it simple.  Make your area interesting
      by having funny NPCs or OBJs, and really good descriptions.
      Remember that all players will see of your code is the
      description, so take your time with them. Also try to keep
      your code neat, since that is what the immortals will see.
      /std/area/room/basic.c (the room to the east of your workroom)
      will show you how code is generally organized on Haven, as
      well as explain what some of the functions do. Note especially
      how the functions line up, and the text is indented. Also that
      functions and their closing parentheses are on their own
      lines (this allows for easier revisions later as well as ease
      of reading).

  Suggestions
  -----------------------
  1.  Start by reading through help basics and help newbie_builder.
      These will teach you different commands that are avaliable
      to angels, or refresh them in your memory if you've coded
      before. Looking through help immortal commands is also
      recommended.
  2.  To the east of your workroom is a small teaching room. 
      Looking at it can help you learn about different functions.
  3.  Documents detailing each file type can be found in /doc/build.
      Some of these files may be a bit outdated, but will give you a
      general sense of how to code different file types.
  4.  Recoding your workroom can also help, as can looking at files 
      for areas that you used to play in.  This will teach you what 
      the code looks like for a room you're familiar with.
  5.  Try your best to answer your own questions before asking others.
      While its not intended you spend hours looking for an answer,
      it is good to at least read the relevant build document before
      you ask. This will usually teach you more in the long run than
      just asking would.
  6.  Be nice to your fellow angels, and all the other immortals--
      especially your sponsor and those that will be doing Quality 
      Control on all your areas (Laoise).  They can all 
      help answer your coding questions, but they won't if you're
      a BadWord<tm>.

  After Promotion to Immortal
  -----------------------

  We aren't interested in huge areas.  We have enough, and big spaces 
  in between. Before an immortal starts to plan a big, complex castle, 
  we want to stop them. It takes a lot more work than it seems it will.  
  So, first, we want immortals to code a few small areas.  Not as 
  small as the angel projects, but something around 10 rooms or so.

  If you, as an immortal, think you're ready for something more--talk 
  it over with your sponsor.  They may be willing to give the go ahead 
  for your larger project.  Alternatively, think of splitting it down 
  into two smaller areas that you fuse together when you've finished 
  both--and make each of them good, stand-alone areas.
