--- Roleplay Help: Jidoor, The City of Magic --------------------------------

  "Magic is within us all, and it is within Jidoor too."
                Mingad Marden, Former Mayor of Jidoor ~ Fourthmonth, Year 109

 - Geography and Appearance -
  Surrounded in every direction but south by the Crystal Reaches, the city 
 of Jidoor is often referred to as the City of Magic.  The city itself is 
 constructed out of stone and wood and is one of cities of Kailie quick to
 use new technologies as they are discovered.  The architecture of some of
 the buildings in the city are truly awe inspiring.  
  Jidoor is both helped and hindered by the massive mountain range that 
 surrounds it.  The Valley that the city lies in is well known to have 
 calm and temperate weather but the land is mostly barren and yields very 
 little food.  There are lush forests south of the city and they are known
 to be populated by some intelligent creatures as well as plenty of animals.
  Most of Jidoor's appeal lies in the fact the survival is based on magic.
 The magic that flows so vividly in Jidoor is the source of much of its
 industry and commerce.

 - Inhabitants -
  Although it is mostly populated by Sprites and Lamrani, Jidoor is a quite 
 open community. All of the world's Sprites and Lamrani are born in Jidoor.
 Although it is quite open to other races, the citizens of Jidoor do tend
 to make some races feel unwelcome.  In particular dwarves because of their
 hatred of magic and less intellectual and civilized races such as ogres 
 and goblins.  The city is known to be attacked on a regular basis by both
 lizardman and orcs.  Many of the worlds greatest mages are born in the city 
 and yet others flock to it in hopes of improving their magical skills by 
 associating with the greatest mages of Kailie.  Magic is the focus of most 
 conversations and although the majority of the population are Magildans, 
 mages of all faiths are welcomed into the conversations of knowledge.

 - Things of Interest -
  There are a few reasons why one would want to visit Jidoor, or even to 
 make it a permanent residence.  Some of these things include the primary
 temple of Dylanthalus - the Lord of Magic.  The Magildan Temple is perhaps
 the most awe inspiring building in the city and could only have been 
 crafted by powerful magic.  The Great Library of Jidoor, another of the 
 spectacular buildings in Jidoor was built in the year 108 and has quickly
 become the center of knowledge in Kailie.  A guild of mages known as the
 Jidoormages have their hall located in the Great Library and are a great
 community of mages sworn to protect the city and it's inhabitants. Jidoor
 is also home to Zurlock, the Grandest Healer of Kailie.  He is well known
 for his ability to heal not only the injured or the physically tired, but
 the mentally tired as well.  The city has a few shops of interest, 
 including a general store and a gem dealer as well as the Dew Drop Inn, 
 operated by one of Jidoor's more prominent citizens. The Kailie Bazaar, 
 located just west of the city square is home to many vendors and other 
 various attractions.  It is rumored that a portal into the lower planes 
 is also nearby the city, but few speak of its existence. The city is also
 home to a common house for sleeping and a quiet local pub.

 - Local Government -
  Jidoor is an orderly and civilized city and its citizens and visitors are 
 expected to obey the laws set forth by the local government. The city is 
 often filled with children as well, so citizens and visitors alike are 
 expected to respect the innocence of the children while they are around. 
 The government of the city is a form of democracy where the citizens vote
 for their leader ever two years.  Some of most well known laws in the city 
 prohibit theft and murder.  Justice is carried out by the local guild of 
 mages but the city is also protected by a small group of sorcerers who act
 as the cities guardsmen.

 - Currency -
  A beautiful red gem called a rupie is the main form of currency there but
 the bank is known for its acceptance of a wide variety of currencies. The
 rupie is often considered one of the symbols of Jidoor.  The rupie is one 
 of the more widely used currencies in Kailie.

 - Professions -
  Jidoor has leaders of all the mage professions including Evokers, Diviners,
 Necromancers, and Enchanters as well.  Jidoor is also home to the profession
 of the Mystic, the cleric-mages of the Magildan faith.  Jidoor is also home
 to several people capable of training the magical arts.  There are special
 leaders in Jidoor as well, capable of teaching secondary professions to the 
 mage inhabitants.

 - Language -
  The main language of the city is Sprith and almost all residents speak it
 fluently.  Eltherean is also common there, as it is common throughout 
 Kailie.  A local sage is available to teach these languages as well as a
 few others.

 - Timeline of Events -
 (BEFORE THE YEAR 100)
  Jidoor was created by an immortal known as Zaxan Zimtafarous many years 
 ago sometime after the GodsWar.  The city was populated entirely by 
 Sprites, the sentient creatures that Zaxan led to Kailie from some other 
 plane of existence.

 (YEAR 100)
  Jidoor did not officially open it's gates until many years after the 
 GodsWar.  In the year 100, Jidoor made it's presence known to the rest of
 the world of Kailie.  The city experienced little growth during it's 
 early years.  It was not long until the first era of it's dark history 
 was to begin.  When Zaxan was led astray by the false prophet Dunedain, 
 Duuktsaryth, in a fit of immortal rage, destroyed the city from the face 
 of Kailie killing thousands of sprites and leaving those remaining 
 without a home or a god protecting them.  

 (YEAR 104: The Rebirth of Zaxan Zimtafarous)
  Four years later, in the year 104, Zaxan rose from the ashes of his 
 destroyed city and began to rebuild.  The sprites desperately needing the 
 protection of an immortal and a place to call home, flocked back to him, 
 forgiving his treachery and once again praised his glory.  Not quite as 
 quickly as it was destroyed, but quickly enough, the city was rebuilt but 
 again, it experienced little growth or popularity.  

 (YEAR 106: The Rise of Jidoor)
  It was during this time that a dark elf by the name of Rave Draven took 
 leadership of the guild of Jidoormages.  The Jidoormages, never having been
 a powerful guild flourished under his leadership.  After a short while, the
 guild of the Jidoormages began to be recognized as more powerful then the 
 Havenmages.  Many grew to respect Rave as a great leader and he became a
 hero in the city's history for bringing such prestige to the city.
 (YEAR 107: The Rise of Dylanthalus)
  The dark history of Jidoor was not over yet.  Once again Zaxan's treachery 
 led to his destruction at the hands of Duuktsaryth. Instead of outright
 destroying Zaxan, Duuktsaryth enacted vengeance upon him by tricking him 
 into conducting some kind of magical experiment.  Little did Zaxan know,
 this would be the last time he would ever call himself the Supreme Magical
 Being.  The experiment went horribly wrong and Zaxan was destroyed in a
 powerful explosion of magical energy that surged through Kailie. The 
 explosion somehow was contained to the temple of Zaxan and when the dust 
 finally cleared, the once great temple of the Magildans was left in ruin.
  Although the city was not destroyed, the sprites were once again left 
 abandoned and alone. A young immortal by the name of Dylanthalus proved 
 to be their saving grace.  As the final wave of magical energy surged 
 through the world of Kailie, Dylanthalus, in his infinite wisdom found a 
 way to save the magic from leaving Kailie forever and he took control of 
 its essence.  Dylanthalus, wielding the great power of magic, rose from 
 the crowd of immortals to take control of the city of Jidoor.  He decreed 
 himself the Lord of Magic and took on the sprites as his wards.  The 
 Sprites flocked to his banner and many others did as well.  The city of
 Jidoor finally began to see growth and popularity as Dylanthalus slowly 
 sculpted the city into what it is now.

 (YEAR 108: The Kylin Templar Invasions)
  Peace and prosperity reigned in Jidoor for nearly two more years but was 
 shattered when Dylanthalus carelessly allowed the guildleader of the 
 Jidoormages to begin a personal vendetta against the Kylin and the elves.  
 Admiring Rave as their leader two other Jidoormages began to take to 
 Rave's preaching on the Kylin. The two Jidoormages by the names of Xech 
 and Linux began outright attacking the citizens of Haven. Rave had never 
 attacked the citizens, but had actively preached about the Kylin and the 
 elves.  It was soon after that three Jidoormages were wanted in Haven.  
 The new religious order of the Kylin wanted justice and they came to 
 Jidoor seeking it.  Armies of Kylin Templars began slaughtering Sprites 
 and demanding the Jidoormage's surrender.  The Jidoormages fought off 
 the invasions but suffered great losses and many citizens were lying 
 dead in the streets.  Rave knew that his stay in Jidoor had come to an 
 end. In an effort to bring peace back to Jidoor, Rave sent Linux to Haven 
 to stand punishment for his crimes and to let Kylin know that Rave 
 and Xech had exiled themselves from the city of Jidoor.  Rave passed the 
 leadership of guild to a sprite named Ryvanis and an uneasy truce began
 with the Kylin. The Kylin halted their attacks on the city and Jidoor was 
 once again restored to a degree of peace.  As a result of the invasions of
 Jidoor and the self imposed exile of Rave Draven, the gods gathered and 
 chose to rename ninth month of the year 'Exile.'  Although some citizens
 hold Rave in disdain and blame him for the invasions, others recognize
 him as one of the city's greatest legends and forefathers.

 (YEAR 109: The Arrival of the Lamrani)
  In the summer of the year 109, Jidoor became a hotbed of activity when
 Dylanthalus led a group of creatures known as the Lamrani into Jidoor.
 Mystics have told stories that the Lamrani at one time worshiped the God 
 of Death long ago during the GodsWar.  The God of Death was slain shortly 
 after the war began and the Lamrani were orphaned.  Having no home, they 
 fled into the lower planes and hid at the temple of their deceased God.  
 During a visit to the lower planes Dylanthalus stumbled across the temple
 and the Lamrani.  He immediately saw their potential as wielders of magic
 and as potential followers.  Dylanthalus recognized their faith in the God
 of Death was not an evil thing, but something very similar to the way he 
 felt about Magic.  Dylanthalus began to teach them the ways of the Magildan. 
 The Lamrani became adept followers and once again, Dylanthalus chose to 
 adopt another race of creatures.  He led them to the city of Jidoor and 
 pronounced the Sprites and the Lamrani shall forever live in harmony as 
 members of the same family.  The Lamrani presence in Jidoor has been 
 difficult at times. At first, there was some tension between the 
 Sprites and Lamrani but most Sprites and the Lamrani soon began to 
 understand each other.  Both respected each other's commitment to magic
 and to the Magildan belief.

 - Summary -
  The citizens of Jidoor tend to be open and inviting to others so long as
 people are respectful of both magic and of the faith of magic.  It is a
 city of opportunity, knowledge and mystery. The city is still plagued with
 occasional raids for orcs as well as a new threat from the city of Balzor
 as lizardmen have taken to raiding the city now as well. Despite it's dark 
 history, the city of Jidoor continues to bloom.  Jidoor will definitely 
 have many more stories in its future and many of its stories were not
 detailed in this writing.

                                                Dralius, Loremaster of Jidoor
                                                         Fifthmonth, Year 109

                              (Written by Dylanthalus@Haven - Jan 19th, 1999)
-------------------------------- Roleplay Help: Jidoor, The City of Magic ---
