HAVEN GUILDS 

Haven originally had five guilds which had their own 
player agenda. These were active roughly before the 
world we know today existed. They had their own 
rules, also their own requirements for membership.
Here is the "Old School" listing of the old guilds,
and their histories before their powers and heroes 
were forgotten. Leaders mentioned are the last known 
keepers of the guilds on record.

Starting in no particular order:

Goblin Horde - (Horde)

The leader Sdagt, no doubt a Goblin Khan 
Lieutenant formed the Goblin Horde. His 
offering to his guild mates was a thin 
leather neckstrap. All the members were 
restricted to Goblin only.


Jidoor Mages Guild - (JidoorMage)

Recognized by her peers as a powerful 
spellcaster, Luna ascended as the new 
leader of the Jidoor Mages. She had decreed
that any member willing to advance themselves
in knowledge and devote to the lifestyle 
of magicks would be chosen to wear the 
luminous green cloak. This conclave 
encouraged witches and wizards to cast aside
their trivial matters on the island and 
pursue deeper and higher magical powers. 


The Order of Sword and Dragon - (Sisterhood)

Only those to absolve sin and commit to vanquish 
chaos in the world the sisterhood rose to power.
After being financed from the church in Haven,
Kaiya and her followers of The Lord of Order 
built a guildhall south of the church. It still
stands until this day. Kaiya bestowed a silver 
ring to the members which was recognized as 
a high asset to the Kylin faith. Many members 
were offered rings, even half elves could join, 
as long as you were female.


The Dark Order - (Order)

Banded by a collection of thieves and miscreants,
the Dark Order housed many. Merely a rumor by 
those who disdain its existence. Mainly used as 
a safehouse of crime to trade illegal goods and 
to plot murders. Due to the shade of unknown around
this guild, no leader has ever been subdued or 
recognized.


Guardians of Twilight - (Twilight)

A less than public guild known was the Obsidian 
Apostles. Actions of anyone who would questioned 
this guild were often silenced. Those that found 
any core information, often was visited by Sekh. 


Orc Fighters - (OrcFighters)

The Orcfighters were lead by an Orc Kylin Cleric 
by the name of Cyric who hailed from Yozrath. His 
chosen divinity was his will by the end of a blade,
powered by He who Judges. The most biggest and 
well known of the island. This was the largest 
clan and well recognized as they boasted their 
deeds. They were Orcs. They slaughtered everything.