		     The Nightmare IV LPC Library
			   Getting Started
		 written by Descartes of Borg 950419

This document describes how to get started with the Nightmare IV LPC
Library.  Before you get started, you must have the following:
	1) The Nightmare IV LPC Library
	2) The MudOS v21.2 LPMud Driver

You may find both at ftp.imaginary.com.  In fact, it is best to get
the file MudOS+Nightmare.tar.gz as it contains both files with most of
this setup work already done for you.

Once you have the proper files, you need to compile the driver.  It is
important to note that the MudOS driver comes with many diverse
configuration options, and that the several mudlibs which work with
MudOS cannot use the same driver for that reason.  The Nightmare IV
LPC Library comes with an options.h file setup for the Nightmare IV
LPC Library in its distribution.  If you did not get the
MudOS+Nightmare distribution, then you should copy this options.h over
to the MudOS source directory over the old options.h that comes with
MudOS.

It is important that you use the proper options.  Nightmare has no UID
system, uses privs, does not use driver based wizard support among
many other things which run contrary to the default options.h which
ships with MudOS.  Once you have the options.h in place, you need to
edit it to custmize it for any needs you might have.

IMPORTANT NOTE: NO_ANSI in options.h has nothing to do with MUD colour
support.  It has to do with things like players artificially sending
control characters through.  It is very much recommended that you
leave NO_ANSI defined, unless you are in a country whose keyboards
make use of characters which NO_ANSI will prevent.

After done with options.h, you then need to edit the appropriate
Makefile.  If you are using GNU make (all Linux systems use GNU make),
use the GNUmakefile.  Otherwise use Makefile.  If in doubt, use
Makefile (GNU make understands regular makefiles).  You need to make
changes which reflect the way your particular UNIX is setup.  The
MudOS+Nightmare comes pre-set for SunOS 4.1.3.

Type make and take a nap :)

Remember, if at any time after first typing 'make' you go back and
make changes to options.h, you must type 'make clean;make' in order
for the driver to compile properly.

Assuming everything goes ok, you should now be able to type 'make
install'.

Now it is time to turn your attention to the Nightmare IV LPC Library
directory.  At this point, you should know several things...
1) What do you want to name your MUD?
2) In what directory did your driver binary get installed?
3) In what directory should your MUD configuration file go?  If you do
not understand this question, then just use the answer to number 2 as
the answer to this question.
4) What port number should the game be accessed on?  The port number
is what people type after the address to get to your game, for
example, to get to Nightmare people type 'telnet
nightmare.imaginary.com 1701'.  1701 is Nightmare's port number.  The
number should generally be between 1024 and 65000. 6000 is bad for
machines running X.
5) What port should your address server run on?  The address server is
a separate program which resolves ip numbers to names.  It should not
be a number near your mud port, since your mud port and several other
ports near it are used for MUD services.

Once you know the answers to these questions, run the Configure
program that ships with the Nightmare IV LPC Library and uses these
answers to answer the questions it asks you.

Start your mud.  You do this by typing 'RestartNMIV' from the driver
binary directory at the UNIX command line.  You will notice a whole
list of messages.  Give it about 2 minutes.  If after about 2 minutes
you do not see someing like 'Accepting user connections on port
whatever' then you may have a problem.  If, however, you see this
message, you know your MUD is up and you can now telnet to it.

Create an admin character.  The first login on a Nightmare IV LPC
Library is assumed to be the admin.  For this reason, it is very
important you telnet to the MUD immediately.  You will be asked your
name, to create a password, as well as some other miscellaneous
information.  Once you have answered all the questions, you will be
disconnected.  Your admin character has been created and everything is
ready to go.  Anyone else trying to login from this point on will get
a normal login screen.  You can now telnet to your MUD and login like
normal.  You will be all set as an admin.

You are all done with getting started.  A couple of important points
though:

1) To make someone a creator in your game, use the 'encre' command.
For example, 'encre descartes' would make me a cre.  You can encre
people not online, though they do need to have made a character.  A
creator is the Nightmare equivalent of a wizard, someone who codes on
the MUD.

2) The opposite of encre is decre.

3) To make someone an admin, they first must be a creator.  Just add
that person to the group SECURE in /secure/cfg/groups.cfg if they are
head admins, or to ASSIST in that same file in that same file if they
are assistant admins.  You then need to issue the command 'update
/secure/daemon/master.c'.  If the person is logged in, they need to
log out and then log back in.

You should now make yourself familiar with the layout of Nightmare IV
files by reading the document DirectoryStructure.

Descartes of Borg
borg@imaginary.com
