
  GODSWAR
  
  The GodsWar is the name given to the span of time immediately following
  the creation of the Lesser Gods.  Each of the Lesser Gods was meant to 
  have minor control over one small aspect of the world of Kailie, and 
  was meant to act within that sphere of control at all times.
  
  However, as with many things, the Lord of Order's will was affected by
  the taint of the Lord of Chaos, Taigis.  The slight spark that Taigis
  gave to the Lesser Gods was a desire for free will and independence.
  That this would lead to ruin was well within the plan for Taigis.
  
  The original Lesser Gods powers were manifested within Ahriman Lord
  of War, Amelia Lady of Nature and Goodness, Syra the Cold, Portia the
  Dark Lady, Zaxan Lord of Magic, Morgoth Lord of Evil, Durandel Lord of Fire
  and Balishae the Wise.  That these beings should have free will was never 
  intended, each meant only to expand a small section of the world and hold 
  dominion over small parts.
  
  With the touch of Taigis, several of the gods were corrupted, and each
  began their quest for world domination by challenging the very basis of
  their power: the sentient elves, children of the Lord of Order.  Each
  of the Lesser Gods sought to create their own sentient beings, and as
  each birthed their brood, these creatures inevitably began to fight among
  themselves.  The fiercest and most warlike species naturally was created
  by Ahriman.  The orcs, as they were known, began to assemble their forces
  and quickly conquered the lands of the Southern Coast.  This move was 
  countered by the High Elves, and fierce battles were fought establishing
  what is today the border between the Crystal Reaches and the Southern Coast.
  The Elves settled this realm heavily, and built one of the Elven Towers here.
  
  Durandel and his drughkor surged from the plains of Yozrath and nearly 
  overwhelmed the forces of Morgoth and Amelia.  Their combined powers, a 
  marriage of obvious convenience, were enough to throw the forces of Fire
  back into the plains of Yozrath, and their vengeance was enough to burn the
  plains into a sandy ruin.  No evidence remains of the drughkor, having been
  annihilated by the combined forces of the nosferatu and muezzin.  Without
  followers, Durandel faded into nothingness and was no more.
  
  Portia, having stayed hidden during this time, began to whisper dreams of 
  glory and riches into the minds of the elves, and the Lord of the Eastern
  Tower fell prey.  The tale of the fall of high elves is recounted in other
  histories, but the result was the destruction of the Eastern Tower and the 
  cursing of the Southern Tower.  Portia power faded at the death visited
  upon her creatures, now called the dark-elves, but Alessandra picked up the
  helm and lead a resurgence of the evil elves.
  
  Lurking in the shadows were some very minor deities, one already revealed 
  which became Alessandra, but others such as Laoise, Melchezidek, Malak, and
  Illura were yet to be revealed.  These minor creatures received their chance
  when the touch of Taigis infected two of the most senior of the immortals,
  Zaxan and Balishae.
  
  With the touch of Chaos into the minds of Balishae and Zaxan, two creatures
  upon whom the world had been hinged were loosed.  Zaxan's war was brutal, 
  leaving countless thousands dead upon the floor of the Valley, but when 
  his forces were crushed he recanted and accepted a role in the pantheon of 
  Kailie.  Since his crushing defeat, Magic accepted the role of Order and
  was organized into various spheres.  To this day, the inherent Order of Magic
  cannot be denied, and this is due to the constant supervision the Lord of
  Order has kept on the Lord of Magic.
  
  However, Balishae the Wise, creator of the two smaller races of dwarves and
  halflings, was fully corrupted.  His vengeance left the world shattered and
  adrift, requiring the full attention of the Lord of Order simply to restore
  the world to a normal spin.  With the horror that Balishae unleashed, his 
  creatures renounced his protection.  The halflings quickly became interested
  in the workings of this new world, and took up the religion of Eclat, focused
  on natural peace and community.  The dwarves, however, having been the elite
  warriors of the fallen god, shattered his images and became some of the most
  fanatical followers of the Lord of Order.
  
  The Purge that followed the GodsWar left many gods dead on the field of battle,
  Morgoth and Syra having fallen in the wars with Balishae, Zaxan left as a shell,
  Durandel dead, and lesser angels strewn as deific waste throughout the cosmos.
  
  With the peace came the realization that a neutral race would be created, and
  conflict for followers would be limited to within this race, although free will
  would allow members of other races to renounce their natural faiths if they
  should choose.  Thus were created... humans.