  Aetarin is one of the minor faiths of Kailie. Presided 
  over by Aerelus, the Patriarch of Honor, Aetarin is a religion 
  which favors integrity and honor above all else. The Aetarin 
  follower believes that by maintaining a dignified and 
  respectable way of life they will ascend to a better place, 
  to live for eternity by the side of their God.
  
  The Aetarin way of life is far from straightforward. Followers 
  are expected to enforce their beliefs upon all they come 
  across. They are fearful of all other faiths, though acknowledge 
  the existence of only the other major deities. They are ever 
  determined to control the entire world, though never by means 
  of aggression nor kindness. They believe that the entire 
  population will one day come to realise that the worship of 
  Aerelus is paramount. The Aetarin followers certainly seek power, 
  though would never consider acquiring it by dishonorable means. 
  They would never kill another person unless there was some honor 
  to be gained, nor would they aid those who lack it. 
  
  Aetarin society is strictly hierarchical. The word of higher 
  ranking members is obeyed without question, for to disobey ones 
  superior would be most dishonorable, and would always end in 
  execution. The followers of Aerelus are fearful of all non 
  faith-based magic. They traditionally burn all those caught or 
  even suspected of practicing the forbidden arts, without exception. 
  They are fierce combatants, and would rather die than admit defeat 
  in any situation. Every fight is to the death, in the eyes of the 
  Aetarin follower. Should any opponent refuse to deliver a finishing 
  blow, the honorable would rather throw themselves on their own 
  blade to retain any dignity they still have.
  
  Demi-gods of Aetarin are Patrons of Honor, Dignity and Integrity. 
  Prayers should be addressed to the Patriarch of Honor, though 
  followers would never refer to their God by his name unless in a 
  situation where time is not in their favor.