  Soirin is one of the Major Faiths of Kailie.
  Presided over by Alessandra the Princess of Darkness
  and Melchezidek the Prince of Deception, it is a
  religion with two faces, much like its beliefs.
  To those who are enthralled by the enigmatic nature
  of its deities, Soirin is the source of power, fulfillment
  and personal glory often fantasied about in the bardic
  tales.

  To the Soirin followers, life is a game that should be
  won at all costs. Whether the goal be riches, or fame
  or a completely hedonistic life style, the path to
  fulfillment lies on the path of the devout. The Soirin
  feel no regret for any actions, which can lead to quite
  disasterous confrontations even among the devout.
  
  The faithful of Soirin are divided into two groups: those
  who adore their Mistress, Alessandra, and those who follow
  the Prince of Deception, Melchezidek. While both Gods are
  respected and worshiped by all followers, each path has
  different motives and goals in life.

  Those faithful to Alessandra adore beauty and pleasure.
  They are the epitome of hedonism and are often seen 
  gallivanting around as if they had no worries. They 
  worship songs and music and aim to please the body's
  more primitive desires through sex and consumption.
  The ultimate prize for those who follow Alessandra is
  a life of pure pleasure embracing all the senses and
  often times manipulating them to suit their needs.
  This lifestyle fits bards and merchants very well but
  is not limited to them.

  On the other hand, Melchezidek's followers are those
  more suited to the arts of deception and assassination.
  They seek glory, fame and riches by any means necessary.
  More suited to the more plain looking followers of Soirin,
  the practice of worship to Melchezidek has been known
  to bring about great rewards for those who are faithful.
  Lying, cheating, stealing, bribing, and even murdering
  are all part of the arsenal available to these people.
  Their goal is to advance themselves without failure,
  and are duly rewarded by their Deity for their actions,
  who sees nothing as too extreme, too debasing. Typically,
  warriors and rogues are the most devout followers of
  Melchezidek, as he promotes their use of violence to
  further their ends.

  While the worship in Soirin is divided among the two
  deities, it is not exclusive to either one. One who
  primarily worships Alessandra can be found praying to
  Melchezidek in times of distress, as well as a
  faithful of Melchezidek praying to Alessandra for
  comeliness or blessing a wedding or other social
  gathering.

  Patrons of Soirin are those of Lust, Seduction, Greed,
  Vengence, Desire, Merchants, Deception, Vanity and 
  Assassins. Prayers should be addressed to either
  Alessandra known as Princess of Darkness or Melchezidek,
  the Prince of Deception.
