        The Kysarin religion surrounds the belief that a long time ago, a
goddess called Kyla created a very strong and powerful race -- the dragons. 
She created only a few of them because they were so powerful and strong. 

        Some time after the GodsWar ended, a group of humans became lost 
in the Barian jungle when they came across one of the dragons -- Kysanth. 
In awe of her power, the humans quickly fled from her lair and established 
a small town on the other side of the jungle which they called Baria.
        
        These humans started to worship Kysanth until one day, when
they received a message from Kyla telling them that she was the one who 
gave life to the dragon Kysanth, and that Kysanth wasn't the only dragon
in Kailie. From that day on, the humans decided to worship Kyla and to 
call the religion Kysar.
        
        After some time, Kyla disappeared from the Heavens and the Kysar 
religion was abandoned until an immortal named Rhakz adopted the form of 
a dragon and approached the followers of the dying religion.  He said that
he would take Kyla's place and fulfill the wishes of the few Kysarin 
followers as well as expand the religion by initiating more people into it.
        
        The Kysarin faith worships many idols including the dragons 
themselves, but most importantly, they worship Rhakz, the Master and Lord
of the Dragons.  His followers are very loyal, and tend to respect people 
from other religions, but they will fight to defend themselves and their 
village if they have to. The new beginning of the faith did not come 
without new teachings from Rhakz, as the Kysarin faith now practices the 
tenet of treating others as they treat you.  Be kind to those who are
kind, be ruthless to those who are ruthless.
       
        The main class representing the Kysarin religion are the shamans, 
and they are divided into the following ranks:

        The Apprentice Medicine Shaman
        The Medicine Shaman of Baria
        The Grand Kysarin Faith Healer
        The High Mi'Dach of the Barian Jungle
        The Sacred Dragon Priest of Kysar

