Gnomish City of Floeholm (Underland)
Plan and History
Atrus@HavenMud May 11, 2023
A loving resurrection


This is going to be a land of artisans. 
However, they have stat caps in place.
High level should deter HM/Legend characters believing they can roll it
Most casters will be able to, and fighters can cruise through on level.

Crafted items should overtake gear here in town, but it's still worthy of
a character of the level. 

This is a revision of the Gnomes. Even attempting to rename the city to "Floeholm"
with it's renovations and growth. Gnomes are now taking insult to people referring 
to their beloved city as 'Underland'. Though the rest of the world still does.

The Gnomes spent all this time at study. No longer reliant on the dwarves for their 
crafted needs, after being shut away under Mount Trogg for so many years, they are 
a legion of craftsmen and artisans. Their currency the Rupie has been funneled into 
Jidoor for years, allowing it to increase in value. Now, with the bank overflowing;
King Nizzlebrig Undertrogg has declared the city open. The gates have swung open to the 
public. Caravans and wagons of every size have flooded in and out of the city since.



--History--
The years were long in the dark and gloom of the caves after the gods war. The 
world heaved and belched hellfire as it settled. The Gnomes, fearing extinction, ran 
for the hills. Reaching Mount Trogg they relished her slopes. Snow melt and lava flows 
offered a new abundant power source for doing the heavy lifting. A steady team of 
engineers toiled to bore huge holes deeper into Mount Trogg. Eventually reaching 
a huge magma chamber, they worked for years to redirect and reroute every ounce of 
geothermal energy they could from the mountain.

And thus was born the beginning of the industrial revolution, without much of the rest 
of the world ever knowing. Gnomish inventions bored the tunnels. Gnomish inventions 
raised the spires and forges that make the city great today. And Gnomish machines 
are doing most of the labor. While small in stature, Gnomes are hearty creatures. 
But their love of mechanizations has left their physical strength waining from what
little it was to begin with. Yes they can still become powerful, but they won't be 
pulling the ogre, just knocking him over.  

After years of clan chiefs squabbling over power the Gnomes of Floeholm decided to 
appoint a council to rule. That lasted all of a few years until an industrial hero 
was appointed King. King Nizzlebrig Undertrogg. In the years since his appointment,
the King has strived to bring his city to be a grand power. Learning the lessons of 
history his first point of order was to reinstate the Centurions within the City Guard.

King Undertrogg has also appointed a council of elders to direct the many construction and 
logistic projects throughout the city. His primary concerns are the protection of the 
city, and returning it to it's former glory. He has begun a breeding program to raise
great beasts of burden to work in the city, and ride into battle. He has perfected the 
breeding of Millipedes. Some now as large as a dragon. Heavily carapaced and with too 
many legs to count, the king hopes his new seige bugs will be a force to be reckoned 
with. 


--Location--

Located in the Valley Domain placed on the underground road from Glimmerdin to the
Estergrym Reaches. A gate one each end open and close with animation. Situated 
geographically between Jidoor and Durguroth under the violent slopes of Mount Trogg, 
hidden from view from the surface, but outwardly visible clues exist. They are to 
be blamed for the perpetual cloud that surrounds the mountain above. Being the 
processed forge and smelter gasses, and massive amounts of bled off steam, the cloud 
has no choice but to linger on the mountain.

The city is laid out in a wagon wheel style map, a large ring road acting as defense and 
habitation areas. An inner ring surrounded with forges and workshops of every kind. 
There are four primary roads all leading to the center of the city. And two ways out, 
east and west. Strategy dictates a route of egress should it come need to sack the city
in lieu of allowing invaders to overtake her riches.

An eluded to epic end-game should it come to abandon the city, is a vast vent in the roof. 
Currently closed, this vent was the first ever installed in the caves under Mount Trogg,
and it is the drain plug for the magma chamber directly above the city core. While 
the infrastructure of the city is basalt and obsidian, most of it would survive, if 
changed. However whatever force thought they had a foothold in the hidden Gnomish City of
Floeholm, would be forever entombed within her very depths. 

--Lore Notes--

Gnomes really dislike Underland name.

They have forsaken the old gods and worship now the Heart of Trogg and all her gifts.
Calling for the Bleeding Heart of Gold to bless them.
Their 'faith' has no true 'god', so it is "Faith_Illusion" based. 

While clerics and Paladins can still be found among the ranks, most of the Gnomes are 
arcane casters. Regarding the Mystics of Jidoor to be the best in the world, there is 
a faction of casters in Floehold attempting to multiclass as Druid and a Evoker, but 
so far they have had no such luck. The school of Illusion magic has bled over from the 
teachings of the Centurions however and tricksters are now ever present in the city.

Pickpockets and blatant thieves have been seen throughout the lower quarters, but the 
centurions would rather spend their time taking bribes than figting.

Necromantic rituals have been found in the depths of the city. The Centurions choose to 
look the other way. And the King would like to know more. 

Classes - 
Acrobat
Bard
Fighter
Rogue
Cavalier
Merchant
Enchanter
Illusionist
Evoker
Necromancer
Cleric - Faith_Illusion
Priest - Faith_Illusion
Druid//Ranger, likely Ranger

NO SAILOR - they hate water.

