  HISTORICAL TIMELINE

 (BEFORE THE YEAR 100)
  Jidoor was created by an immortal known as Zaxan Zimtafarous many years 
 ago sometime after the GodsWar.  The city was populated entirely by 
 Sprites, the sentient creatures that Zaxan led to Kailie from some other 
 plane of existence.

 (YEAR 100)
  Jidoor did not officially open it's gates until many years after the 
 GodsWar.  In the year 100, Jidoor made it's presence known to the rest of
 the world of Kailie.  The city experienced little growth during it's 
 early years.  It was not long until the first era of it's dark history 
 was to begin.  When Zaxan was led astray by the false prophet Dunedain, 
 Duuktsaryth, in a fit of immortal rage, destroyed the city from the face 
 of Kailie killing thousands of sprites and leaving those remaining 
 without a home or a god protecting them.  

 (YEAR 104: The Rebirth of Zaxan Zimtafarous)
  Four years later, in the year 104, Zaxan rose from the ashes of his 
 destroyed city and began to rebuild.  The sprites desperately needing the 
 protection of an immortal and a place to call home, flocked back to him, 
 forgiving his treachery and once again praised his glory.  Not quite as 
 quickly as it was destroyed, but quickly enough, the city was rebuilt but 
 again, it experienced little growth or popularity.  

 (YEAR 106: The Rise of Jidoor)
  It was during this time that a dark elf by the name of Rave Draven took 
 leadership of the guild of Jidoormages.  The Jidoormages, never having been
 a powerful guild flourished under his leadership.  After a short while, the
 guild of the Jidoormages began to be recognized as more powerful then the 
 Havenmages.  Many grew to respect Rave as a great leader and he became a
 hero in the city's history for bringing such prestige to the city.
 (YEAR 107: The Rise of Dylanthalus)
  The dark history of Jidoor was not over yet.  Once again Zaxan's treachery 
 led to his destruction at the hands of Duuktsaryth. Instead of outright
 destroying Zaxan, Duuktsaryth enacted vengeance upon him by tricking him 
 into conducting some kind of magical experiment.  Little did Zaxan know,
 this would be the last time he would ever call himself the Supreme Magical
 Being.  The experiment went horribly wrong and Zaxan was destroyed in a
 powerful explosion of magical energy that surged through Kailie. The 
 explosion somehow was contained to the temple of Zaxan and when the dust 
 finally cleared, the once great temple of the Magildans was left in ruin.
  Although the city was not destroyed, the sprites were once again left 
 abandoned and alone. A young immortal by the name of Dylanthalus proved 
 to be their saving grace.  As the final wave of magical energy surged 
 through the world of Kailie, Dylanthalus, in his infinite wisdom found a 
 way to save the magic from leaving Kailie forever and he took control of 
 its essence.  Dylanthalus, wielding the great power of magic, rose from 
 the crowd of immortals to take control of the city of Jidoor.  He decreed 
 himself the Lord of Magic and took on the sprites as his wards.  The 
 Sprites flocked to his banner and many others did as well.  The city of
 Jidoor finally began to see growth and popularity as Dylanthalus slowly 
 sculpted the city into what it is now.

 (YEAR 108: The Kylin Templar Invasions)
  Peace and prosperity reigned in Jidoor for nearly two more years but was 
 shattered when Dylanthalus carelessly allowed the guildleader of the 
 Jidoormages to begin a personal vendetta against the Kylin and the elves.  
 Admiring Rave as their leader two other Jidoormages began to take to 
 Rave's preaching on the Kylin. The two Jidoormages by the names of Xech 
 and Linux began outright attacking the citizens of Haven. Rave had never 
 attacked the citizens, but had actively preached about the Kylin and the 
 elves.  It was soon after that three Jidoormages were wanted in Haven.  
 The new religious order of the Kylin wanted justice and they came to 
 Jidoor seeking it.  Armies of Kylin Templars began slaughtering Sprites 
 and demanding the Jidoormage's surrender.  The Jidoormages fought off 
 the invasions but suffered great losses and many citizens were lying 
 dead in the streets.  Rave knew that his stay in Jidoor had come to an 
 end. In an effort to bring peace back to Jidoor, Rave sent Linux to Haven 
 to stand punishment for his crimes and to let Kylin know that Rave 
 and Xech had exiled themselves from the city of Jidoor.  Rave passed the 
 leadership of guild to a sprite named Ryvanis and an uneasy truce began
 with the Kylin. The Kylin halted their attacks on the city and Jidoor was 
 once again restored to a degree of peace.  As a result of the invasions of
 Jidoor and the self imposed exile of Rave Draven, the gods gathered and 
 chose to rename ninth month of the year 'Exile.'  Although some citizens
 hold Rave in disdain and blame him for the invasions, others recognize
 him as one of the city's greatest legends and forefathers.

 (YEAR 109: The Arrival of the Lamrani)
  In the summer of the year 109, Jidoor became a hotbed of activity when
 Dylanthalus led a group of creatures known as the Lamrani into Jidoor.
 Mystics have told stories that the Lamrani at one time worshiped the God 
 of Death long ago during the GodsWar.  The God of Death was slain shortly 
 after the war began and the Lamrani were orphaned.  Having no home, they 
 fled into the lower planes and hid at the temple of their deceased God.  
 During a visit to the lower planes Dylanthalus stumbled across the temple
 and the Lamrani.  He immediately saw their potential as wielders of magic
 and as potential followers.  Dylanthalus recognized their faith in the God
 of Death was not an evil thing, but something very similar to the way he 
 felt about Magic.  Dylanthalus began to teach them the ways of the Magildan. 
 The Lamrani became adept followers and once again, Dylanthalus chose to 
 adopt another race of creatures.  He led them to the city of Jidoor and 
 pronounced the Sprites and the Lamrani shall forever live in harmony as 
 members of the same family.  The Lamrani presence in Jidoor has been 
 difficult at times. At first, there was some tension between the 
 Sprites and Lamrani but most Sprites and the Lamrani soon began to 
 understand each other.  Both respected each other's commitment to magic
 and to the Magildan belief.

 (Year 110: The Revival of the Jidoormages)
  Early in the year, the great mage Yossarian moves from Haven town to 
 Jidoor and assumes control of the faltering Jidoormages in Ryvanis'
 absence.  Her presence in Jidoor is felt throughout the Valley and even
 throughout Kailie.  Unfortunately, wanderlust takes the better of her and
 she disappears for many months.  For many months, the nearly dead 
 Jidoormages fail to defend the city from increasing invasions by orcs and
 lizardmen.  The city's leaders act by replacing the town guard with an 
 elite group of Shadowmages who become known as the Shadowguard. The new 
 force demonstrates fierce combat ability and intelligent use of spells 
 while remaining ever-ready for any invasion.  Numerous invasions are put 
 down with ease and Jidoor citizens, although somewhat annoyed with the 
 overbearing presence of the Shadowguard, are happy to be safe once again 
 in their city.  At this time, Rave removes his self-imposed exile and moves
 back to Jidoor.  Although contraversial, most agreed that the Kylin had
 forgiven Rave for his crimes and they were much to busy in a war with the
 Saahagoth to worry about Rave's change of address.  Around this time, 
 Ryvanis, the old leader of the Jidoormages returns to Jidoor from a long
 hyatis.  Under the direction of Dylanthalus, Ryvanis reassumes control of 
 the Jidoormages.  Having a long time friendship with Ryvanis, Rave is 
 permitted to rejoin the guild.  Shortly after, Ryvanis has recruited several 
 more Jidoormages including the fabled Luna An'Duheart, a mystic of great 
 prowess and ability.  Within a few short weeks, the Jidoormage guild grew
 in power and returned to status that it once knew under the good days of
 Rave's leadership.  Unfortunately, conflict has begun to arise as the 
 the Jidoormages realize the Shadowguard have become the new protectors of
 Jidoor.
